DEFENCE WHITE PAPER OF	THE
REPUBLIC	OF SLOVENIA
Both in everyday life, and in the operation and development of a country, we occasio- nally need to stop and strategically assess our efforts to see whether they are leading towards the desired objective.
The result of our strategic reflection is the Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia, which represents a high level of consistency of views within the defence sector on the future security environment, and on the necessary measures to enhance the country's defence capacity, taking into account real human, economic and other capabilities.
I believe that, through diligent work and analysis, we have acquired a good basis for directing the further development of the defence system, which will be able to function effectively and in accordance with its mission.
This document provides guidance for the change, reform and strengthening of both military and non-military defence mechanisms to meet the contemporary security challenges.
It provides the starting point for the preparation of planning documents which will specify the key defence objectives by 2035, and the way they are implemented.
The security of the country and its citizens is not self-evident and should not be taken for granted.
It is a benefit and a value that is directly related to the existence of a nation, a government, a democratic system, the sovereignty of a state, the protection of one's identity, the exercise of human rights, and other interests of nations and states.
Slovenia, like other European countries, is facing a changing and highly dynamic security envi- ronment.
There is instability in both the eastern and southern European neighbourho- od.
Hybrid operations call for the modernization and strengthening of defence capacity, and the increased resilience of countries.
On this basis, a new Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 2019, which was fundamental to the preparation of the Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia.
The Defence White Paper provides the basis for continuing the debate on the adoption of the Resolution on the General Long-Term Development and Equipping Programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
In it, we will strive for the widest possible consensus of the professional public and  the policy on the long-term development of the defence system, and the manner in which the Slovenian Armed Forces will ensure national defence and fulfil the obligations of Slovenia as a member of various international organizations.
The Ministry of Defence will strive to provide an efficient and resilient defence system which, taking into account the country's human resources, and material, financial and other capabilities, will develop the necessary level of Slovenia’s defence capacity.
I believe that the vision presented in the Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia will help to create the basis for the building of confidence in the defence system.
We need confidence to create the conditions for a flexible and modern defence system which responds to changes in the international security environment and provides conditions for the functioning of other social subsystems for a quality living envi- ronment, development and prosperity, while giving perspective to future generations.
THE INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY THREATS	8
DEFENCE AND SECURITY POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA	10
Defence policy and international cooperation	12
Vision for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces	14
Military capabilities and military infrastructure	15
Combat capabilities	16
Combat support capabilities	17
Combat service support capabilities	18
Military aviation capabilities	19
Naval capabilities	20
Cyber defence capabilities	20
Military infrastructure development	22
Size and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces	24
Size of the Slovenian Armed Forces	24
Structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces	26
CIVIL DEFENCE AS A RESILIENCE BUILDING BLOCK OF THE
AND CYBER SECURITY	33
INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY CAPABILITIES	36
MEASURES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WHITE PAPER	38
In the last decade, the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia has faced challenges in financial, human and material resources, which, given the increasingly unpredictable and uncertain international security environment, hinders its development and operation in accordance with the law and the adopted  development guidance and planning documents.
INTRODUCTION
The Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia is a strategic document outlining the vision for long-term development, the functioning of Slovenia’s defence  system,  and  the  achievement  of  key  defence  objectives  by   2035.
The Defence White Paper provides planning guidance based on realistic me- dium-term bases for pursuing the objectives of the defence system’s development in the long term.
The greatest challenges for the development of the defence system, especially for the Slovenian Armed Forces as the entity responsible for military defence, are to reach the planned number of personnel, complete its professionalization, continue with modernization, and appropriately fund its operation and  development.
The purpose of the Defence White Paper is to define the gradual and long-term development of Slovenia’s defence system, in order to ensure the necessary level of capacity and preparedness for the implementation of national defence and the fulfilment of the adopted international obligations.
It takes into account the comprehensive approach and importance of the resilience of the country and society as a whole to various forms of security threats and risks.
The following points were taken into account when preparing the Defence White Paper:
The complexity, variability and uncertainty of the future international security environment;
The  appropriate  organization  and  effective  defence  of  the  Republic of Slovenia;
The national defence of the Republic of Slovenia as part of the collecti-ve defence within the framework of NATO and the common security and defence policy of the European Union;
The primary responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the capacity, preparedness, resilience and sustainability of the national defence;
The poor competitiveness of the military profession in the labour market;
The consequences of the lack of financial resources and investments in the
1	VISION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE DEFENCE SYSTEM OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
The defence system of the Republic of Slovenia will adapt to changes in the strategic environment, which  is  characterized  by  the  deteriorating  security in Europe and its periphery. It will be resilient and able to respond to future security threats and challenges.
The effectiveness of the defence system will be based on professionalism, transparency, belonging, patriotism, mutual respect, and recognition of the importance of the defence system entities in the wider social environment.
With an ambitious and predictable level of defence spending, the Republic  of Slovenia will, in the long term, provide human, financial and material resources for the continual modernization of the defence system, and the development of defence capacity.
The national interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence will be achieved by strengthening a credible defence posture, by active engagement in the international environment, and by carrying out the adopted international obligations.
The Republic of Slovenia will have an army capable of defending the country from military threats; an army which will contribute a proportional share of its capabilities to the Alliance's common defence; and an army whose skills, knowledge, training level, and capabilities will help to ensure the security of the country and its citizens, and establish and preserve peace in the world.
THE INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY THREATS
The modern international security environment is changing rapidly.
Globalization has made it more interconnected, complex and interdependent, which, in addition to the positive consequences, also has negative ones.
The state of international relations is shifting towards multipolarity, with the emergence of new centres of power at the global and regional levels, and the related expansion of areas of influence.
In the area of security, the levers of national power of conventional and unconventional origin are strengthening, along with the use of hybrid actions across the broader social, political, economic, financial, intelligence, information,  and media spectrums.
National interests are pursued through the engagement of non-state actors, especially in fragile and conflict areas.
Security risks stem mainly from unstable geographical areas characterized by internal conflicts, failure of authority, corruption, poverty, scarce resources, land degradation, and population growth, which creates conditions for the spread of radicalism, terrorism, crime, and illegal mass migration.
The Republic of Slovenia recognizes and manages the consequences of the changed security environment surrounding the European Union, and with the risks from its periphery.
The processes of stabilization in the Western Balkans remain unfinished, causing an increase in the radicalization and influence of external actors.
Migration pressure remains strong in the south and may affect the security and stability of the country.
Given its geostrategic and geopolitical position, the Republic of Slovenia may be exposed to hybrid operations, attacks on critical infrastructure, terrorism, mass migration pressures, and potential military threats in the event of a deterioration in the international or regional political security situation.
An effective response to modern threats requires an improvement in  the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia.
Complex, interdependent and unpredictable security environment
MILITARY THREATS
ATTACK ON THE OPERATION OF CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
CRIME
RADICALISM
PEACE SECURITY
SCARCITY OF RESOURCES
A
N
D
E
ADJUSTING THE DEFENCE SYSTEM
DEFENCE AND SECURITY POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
The Republic of Slovenia is a globally and regionally responsible country, committed to solidarity and striving for the promotion of peace, security and stability, respect for human rights and international law, prevention of conflict, and jointly addressing global security challenges.
The permanent and vitally important interests of the Republic of Slovenia are to maintain the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of the state, and to maintain the national identity, culture, and authenticity of the Slovenian nation within the internationally recognized borders of the Republic of Slovenia, abroad, and throughout the world.
The Republic of Slovenia is an integral part of the Euro-Atlantic political, economic, security, and cultural environment.
The Republic of Slovenia pursues its vital and strategic national interests autonomously, through intense bilateral cooperation, and by maintaining an active role in the region and in the United Nations Organization, the European Union, NATO, and other international organizations.
It uses mechanisms and means in compliance with the provisions of international law.
The defence system ensures the defence of the country and contributes to other national security objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, such as ensuring a high level of security and prosperity of the citizens; cooperation in deterrence and defence against the threats to security and in ensuring peace in the world; strengthening its international reputation, the political security position, and the visibility of the Republic of Slovenia in the world; and developing good  relationships with its allies, partners and other countries.
Strengthening the wider involvement of countries in the Euro-Atlantic environment, defined by stability, equality, prosperity and solidarity, is in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia.
Such an environment remains an important factor in a more equal position of all actors in the international community, and a guarantee of stability.
It reflects credibility in assuming a proportionate share of the burden and risks in relation to the European Union and NATO.
The Republic of Slovenia will ensure its defence capacity and its preparedness for and responsiveness to military and other threats.
The implementation of the military defence of the Republic of Slovenia will, as a matter of priority, be ensured by respecting the mechanisms of mutual assistance and solidarity within the European Union, and by an appropriate level of Slovenia’s own defence capacity, which is the basis for effective integration into NATO’s collective defence system.
Strengthening the national defence means strengthening the collective defence and vice versa, based on burden sharing and the development of agreed capabilities.
National defence of the RS
Building defence capacity while respecting the principle of burden sharing
In the coming years, all allies will be required to make additional efforts which will be reflected in the development of more advanced capabilities, additional contributions to allied and related structures, a greater range of exercises, and a higher level of force readiness. The long-term strengthening of the deterrence and defence posture increases
Defence policy and international cooperation
The consequences of crisis situations, instability, and conflicts in the world may have negative effects on the national security of the Republic of Slovenia in the globally interdependent and interconnected environment.
It is therefore important to address the causes of instability at the place of their origin through various foreign, defence, and security policy mechanisms, and in accordance with the provisions of international law.
The Republic of Slovenia, as a responsible member of the international community, will contribute to international political, military and other efforts for peace, security and stability in the Western Balkans and in the wider European area, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, and Central Asia, in accordance with its capabilities and the provisions of national and international law.
The Republic of Slovenia will maintain a discernible comparative share in terms of broader burden-sharing, and adjust the contribution ratio for international operations and missions and for NATO and European Union response forces in line with its operational priorities.
It will also support the mission and efforts of the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in various fields.
The Republic of Slovenia will establish its national defence capacity and the agreed target capabilities of the Alliance in accordance with its national interests and needs.
It will contribute to the implementation of the Global Strategy for the European Union's Foreign and Security Policy in the area of security.
The Republic of Slovenia will respect the principle of a single set of forces and capability development.
Coordination in counteracting cyber and hybrid threats and active participation in the development of military mobility will be important for Slovenia’s national security on the basis of the Joint Declaration of the European Union and NATO.
Enhanced cooperation with our allies and strategic and other defence and security partners, based on similar interests, objectives and starting points, will focus on the joint building of specific capabilities, the implementation of modernization projects, participation in international operations and missions, the implementation of joint training and exercises, the transfer of experience in defence and security, and potential joint action within different international organizations.
Cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans will also be enhanced in order to strengthen the Euro-Atlantic integration of these countries.
THE SLOVENIAN ARMED FORCES
The Slovenian Armed Forces provides military defence to the Republic of Slovenia independently and in cooperation with  its allies in the event of military aggression.
The capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces support various national security subsystems in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in crisis and other security-critical situations.
The Slovenian Armed Forces will be an advanced and effective military organization which will develop the necessary military capabilities, raise the level  of general readiness and resilience, and create conditions for increasing its size in the event of a sharp deterioration in the security situation or an immediate military threat to the country.
Modernization of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with a focus on developing the military capabilities of two medium battalion battle groups;
Construction and modernization of critical infrastructure and training areas for the operation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the defence system;
Improvement in the position and reputation of the military profession in society;
Development of military professionalism, leadership and organizational culture, which are the foundations of an effective military organization;
Upgrading of the military education and training system;
An active role of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the recruitment and promotion of the military profession;
Military capabilities and military infrastructure
The Slovenian Armed Forces will develop combat, combat support, combat service support, command support, and military education and training capabilities.
Part of these capabilities will be dual purpose, which means that they can be used both for protection and rescue and for support to other national authorities.
Key modernization projects will be the purchase of wheeled combat vehicles, self-propelled howitzers, short- to medium-range air defence systems, and multi-purpose helicopters.
The possibilities for joint procurement with other countries or within the agencies of the European Union and NATO, and through intergovernmental agreements, will be primarily taken into account when the market analysis concludes that such purchases represent the best option in the light of cost optimization and transparency of procurement.
This includes the purchase and modernization of military equipment already held by the Slovenian Armed Forces.
Tested military equipment will be selected, with no risks in its development and use.
The possibilities and purpose of purchasing used military equipment and weapons will be examined.
The combat capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be based on medium infantry with the ability to form a task brigade-level unit.
The capabilities of air defence, artillery, engineering, nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological defence, communications, and reconnaissance will be included in the medium battalion battle group. These capabilities will be designed in accordance with the standards of the Alliance.
Taking into account the principle of a single set of forces, the medium battalion battle group will be dedicated to ensuring national defence and meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia.
The first medium battalion battle group will be formed by 2027, and the second by 2030.
Light infantry will carry out tasks within the national territory and in internati- onal operations and missions.
It will enable the establishment of the elements for the growth of the force, based on the activation of the concept of military strategic reserve.
Armoured capabilities will participate in joint combat operations at the national level and, to a limited extent, within the Alliance’s territory, and provide capabi- lities for the training of infantry units.
Combat support capabilities
Combat support capabilities  will  be  based  on  joint  fire  support  capabiliti- es (artillery support, anti-tank missile support, air support); intelligence and reconnaissance support; electronic warfare; combat engineer support;  air defence; nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological defence; psychological operations; civil-military cooperation; and ensuring the security and legality of operations.
The capabilities of artillery support will support units up to the brigade level  in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and provide appropriate capabilities for the medium battalion battle group.
Anti-tank capabilities will be upgraded within the infantry capabilities, either as part of infantry units or as part of task anti-tank formations, operating indepen- dently or within the medium battalion battle group.
mobile systems. Air defence capabilities will be based on modern short- to medium-range
The capabilities of combat engineering will ensure the mobility and survival  of friendly forces, and prevent the manoeuvring of enemy forces.
General engineering capabilities will ensure the construction and maintenance of military infrastructure.
Nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological defence capabilities will be able to detect and identify nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological substances, and to decontaminate personnel, equipment and assets.
Modules for the medium battalion battle group will be established from a range of nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological defence capabilities.
Nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological defence capabilities will be deployable.
They will consist of intelligence acquisition, analysis and distribution capabilities.
These capabilities will be deployable and interoperable with the capabilities of the Alliance; they will be able to support the operation of units to the brigade level.
Electronic warfare capabilities will be deployable, while electronic reconnaissance capabilities will be partially deployable.
Combat service support capabilities
Combat service support capabilities will enable the operation and sustainability of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the national context, while part  of the capabilities will be able to support the Slovenian Armed Forces outside the country.
Development will cover autonomous and organic deployable logistic capabilities providing logistic sustainability and support to tactical units of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations and missions.
Tactical units of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be logistically self-sufficient.
The development of non-deployable logistic capabilities to support the Slovenian Armed Forces will be directed towards increasing its combat effectiveness.
Military aviation capabilities consist of the capabilities for air operations, air support, and aviation education and training.
These capabilities will support air transport, provide protection to the Republic of Slovenia’s airspace, and support the Slovenian Armed Forces’ units.
Emphasis will be on joint combat operations within the Slovenian Armed Forces, and on joint operations within the Alliance.
Military aviation capabilities will be deployable within the Alliance’s territory, and partly deployable outside it.
The establishment of new capabilities will follow the principle of reducing the number of different types of aircraft, and the principle of their multi-purpose use.
Efforts will also be directed towards the establishment and provision of medium-range air transport capabilities.
Air surveillance by interceptor aircraft (air policing) will take place within NATO.
The Slovenian Armed Forces will develop capabilities for naval operations designed to operate at sea, on the coast, and on rivers and lakes, either independently or in cooperation with other units of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Alliance.
They will cover the capabilities for surface and underwater operations, and for combat service support.
Part of the naval capabilities  will be deployable mainly within the Alliance's European area.
4.2.5	Naval capabilities
Cyber defence capabilities
The Slovenian Armed Forces' cyber defence  capabilities  will  be  integrated into the Ministry of Defence's comprehensive system and the national cyber security and defence system.
The Slovenian Armed Forces will establish cyber defence capabilities which will be able to detect, prevent, and respond to cyber security incidents in real time.
The possibilities in the context of bilateral cooperation with key strategic partners will continue to be used in the development.
Command support capabilities
Command support capabilities will support command and control functions at strategic, operational and tactical levels.
A secure and flexible high-availability network infrastructure will be established.
The command and control system will be supported by application solutions to support decision-making and command.
Part of these capabilities will be deployable.
Air surveillance capabilities will be based on current long-range radar systems.
Naval capabilities will be connected to maritime communication and  in- formation systems in accordance with international standards.
Situational awareness at sea will be  established  in  cooperation  with  other maritime security actors at national and international levels.
Military educationandtrainingcapabilitieswill enable andsupportthe operation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
To this end, military education and training capabilities will focus on enhancing professionalism and expertise, including in relation to foreign military educational institutions.
Research and scientific work will be strengthened and integrated as much as possible into civilian scientific research processes.
the level of comparable civilian education systems. The military education system will be expected to be verified and habilitated at
Military education and training abroad will be used to develop specific, specialized and high-skill profiles.
High-quality training will be ensured through the purchase of modern training equipment and assets, and the upgrading of training infrastructure.
Military education and training of contract reserve officers and non-commissioned officers will be organized in order to increase the size of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and thus will ensure the necessary human resources for the operation of the contract reserve component and for the training of the military strategic reserve.
Military exercises – as the most demanding form of training – will be intended for the training and verification of the competence and readiness of  the Slovenian Armed Forces’ commands and units to operate across the entire spectrum of operations.
The priority in the area of international exercises will be to participate in exercises that support the development of target capabilities, and which are included in the Alliance’s exercise programme.
4.2.9	Military infrastructure development
The development of military infrastructure will focus on system maintenance and the upgrading of infrastructure, equipment, devices and systems, on energy and the environmental rehabilitation of infrastructure, and on ensuring the prescribed conditions for its use.
Parts of military infrastructure will be included in Host Nation Support to allied forces.
Specific barracks capabilities will be arranged and modernized for the purpose of Host Nation Support.
Firing ranges and training areas, by their regional location and equipment, will enable the training of units, and will be adapted to the increased size of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
The Main Training Area of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Postojna will be the key training capability for the Slovenian Armed Forces’ commands and units, and for joint training and exercises with partners and allies.
The construction of infrastructure for the operational functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces at Cerklje ob Krki Airfield will be completed, giving the airfield the status of an entry-exit point into international airspace for military aircraft.
The airport will carry out the allied task of Host Nation Support.
Part of Jože Pučnik Airport will remain in use for the Slovenian Armed Forces, mainly for the operation of the helicopter units of the Slovenian Armed Forces in support of the system of protection against natural and other disasters, and for the surveillance, control and protection of Slovenia’s airspace.
Mooring of military vessels will be provided in the Port of Koper.
The necessary additional naval infrastructure will be provided in the vicinity of existing military facilities.
Infrastructure for cyber defence capabilities will be provided.
Repair shops, military depots and other necessary infrastructure will be built and modernized simultaneously with the purchase and introduction of new weapon systems into the operational use of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
Size and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces
Size of the Slovenian Armed Forces
The most important issue for armed forces with a professional system of recruitment is the establishment and maintenance of mechanisms to increase their size and structure, in accordance with the need and the available sources and resources of the state and society.
On the basis of military professional assessments, the fulfilment of legal tasks and commitments, and the need to respond effectively, taking into account the uncertain security environment in the future, the target size of the Slovenian Armed Forces is set at 8,000 members of the active component and 2,000 members of the contract reserve component.
The actual human and financial resources, and also the current level of modernization and the already developed capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, will be taken into account in the preparation of appropriate normative, development guidance and planning documents, and the proposal of the new Resolution on the General Long-Term Development and Equipping Programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the future medium-term defence programmes.
The target size of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be achieved in stages.
The objective in the period 2020-2025 is to have 7,000 members of the active component of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and 1,000 members of the contract reserve component of the Slovenian Armed Forces, while at the same time  fun- damentally reforming the system of recruitment and retention of members and their leaving the service.
The objective in the period 2025-2030 is to increase the size and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces to 7,500 members of the active component and 1,500 members of the contract reserve component, if the measures to improve human and financial resources are successfully implemented and the process of modernization and capability development is strengthened.
Target for the number of SAF members
Active component	Contract reserve
A concept of the contract reserve component, divided into a manoeuvre and a territorial part in the future, will be redefined.
The manoeuvre part of the contract reserve component will carry out the whole range of tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and will supplement the capabilities of their units manned by the active component, including participation in international operations and missions, and in collective defence.
The status of the members of the contract reserve component in the civilian environment will be improved; in particular, adequate legal protection for labour rights during longer absences from work due to the performance of military service.
The territorial part of the contract reserve component, led by the active core of the active component, will operate exclusively in national territory.
It will be trained for national defence, and will participate in support activities to the entities of the security system and of the system of protection against natural and other disasters.
If the planned measures in the stated periods do not contribute to an increased number of personnel in the Slovenian Armed Forces (both the active component and the contract reserve component) or if the result is far from the target objective, it will be necessary to rethink the defence system concept of the Republic of Slovenia, the size and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and the introduction of other components of military service.
4.3.2	Structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces
Structure of the Slovenian
OPERATIONAL LEVEL FORCE COMMAND OF THE SAF MILITARY SCHOOLS CENTRE
TACTICAL LEVEL
MANOEUVRE PART (commands and units) TERRITORIAL PART (military territorial commands and units)
The highest military professional body charged with commanding the Slovenian Armed Forces at the strategic level will be the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
At the operational level, the Force Command of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be responsible for the readiness and competence of subordinate commands and units; for the operation of the SAF forces in Slovenia and abroad, including support to the system of protection against natural and other disasters; for assistance to other state authorities; for civil-military cooperation; and for the maintenance of the peacetime cores which will enable a gradual increase in the size of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
The Military Schools Centre will be responsible for the organization and implementation of military education.
Commands and units, in addition to military territorial commands, will be established at the tactical level, representing the maneouvre part and, to a certain extent, the support part of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
The main tasks of the manoeuvre part of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will be composed mostly of the active component, self-sufficient in terms of logistics and mainly deployable, will be to ensure and maintain the required level of readiness of the response and declared forces intended for operations in the Republic of Slovenia and for collective defence, and to develop capabilities, maintain the ability to rapidly generate crisis response forces, form, train and prepare con- tingents for international operations and missions, and ensure interoperability and the ability to operate in a multinational environment.
The military territorial commands will complete the manoeuvre part of the Slovenian Armed Forces through territorial units; train the territorial part of  the contract reserve component; implement civil-military cooperation; support the system of protection against natural and other disasters; provide assistance to other state authorities; carry out services regarding territorial logistics; provide Host Nation Support services; and maintain the peacetime cores which will enable a gradual increase in the size of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
of commands will be manned by the active component. The core
The Slovenian Armed Forces will conduct joint combat operations and be capable of forming a task tactical unit to the brigade level in the national framework, manned by the active component and the contract reserve component.
The peacetime structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces will enable voluntary military service under its fundamental tasks.
Deployable forces will be declared as potentially usable in participation in international operations, particularly in NATO’s collective defence.
Up to 10% of the SAF land component will maintain a high level of readiness within the national territory, or for participation in international operations and missions.
Human resources
Human resources are the major factor allowing the Slovenian Armed Forces to achieve its target size and fulfil its mission.
Efforts to increase the number of personnel in the Slovenian Armed Forces will be focused on the promotion of the military profession; the entry and recruitment of new personnel; the retention of current personnel, including the provision of rewards, compensations and bonuses; and the exit of personnel from the defence system,  including  system  solutions for all  categories  of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces (the contract reserve component and voluntary military service).
The situation relating to human resources in the Slovenian Armed Forces will only improve through a comprehensive personnel approach within the entire national security system and the wider society, requiring certain adjustments and changes to legislation and implementing Acts.
This is in fact a combination of necessary organizational and status-related measures in connection to specific features of the military profession and changes to legislation.
Measures to encourage entry into the Slovenian Armed Forces will be focused on the acceleration of procedures, improved promotion of military profession and employment, the possibility of awards of scholarships, and the opportunity to gain education during employment, among other things.
Measures to improve the status of the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, such as appropriate evaluations and rewards, housing, the regulation of status during education and of different obligations, and other measures under the comprehensive care for the members, will contribute to the retention of the members in the system.
Measures to facilitate members to leave the Slovenian Armed Forces after reaching the age of 45 will be focused on ensuring the acquired rights, regulating the status, and providing financial and other benefits.
In order to successfully implement the measures in the area of human resources, it will be necessary to include the tasks related to the recruitment and retention of personnel in the work processes of the Slovenian Armed Forces.
Financial resources
Due to the changed international security situation, and the extremely negative consequences  of  several  years  of  reduction  in  defence  expenditure,   large financial investments are required.
2,00 %
Target defence expenditure share of GDP
GDP(%)
Between 2024 and 2035, the share of GDP for defence will move towards 2% of GDP within broad fiscal frameworks.
If defence expenditure in the next medium-term period does not reach the defined proportion, the vision of the Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia will not be fully implemented.
Moreover, it will be necessary to  reflect on the level of the defence system’s capabilities and the adopted internatio- nal obligations, and on the related consequences for a wider national security system.
Civil defence, ensuring the conditions for the continual functioning of the autho- rities and the functioning of the entire defence system, will contribute to the en- hancement of civil preparedness and to the resilience of the state and society, and support the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Allied forces in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in peace, crisis, emergency and war, through civilian capabilities and by preparing and implementing measures.
In line with the new strategic reality, and towards the growing interdependen- ce of civilian and military capabilities, the content and tasks of civil defence will be adapted and updated accordingly.
Solutions for the effectiveness of the defence system will be drafted in the defence planning process in the state, on the basis of defence plans prepared by all entities.
With regard to intensified activities in planning civil preparedness, hybrid and cyber threats will also be taken into account, whereby the conditions for the state’s comprehensive responses to various security threats and risks will be ensured.
Efforts towards the supply, protection and survival of the population will also play a key role in terms of strengthening civil preparedness at the national  level.
By ensuring civil preparedness, civil defence will carry an important share of the functions of the Republic of Slovenia, including in the performance of tasks related to NATO’s collective defence and mutual assistance within the European Union.
The established solutions will take into account NATO’s general requirements and criteria for the assessment of civil preparedness in order to ensure the continual functioning of the authorities, support to the armed forces with civilian capabilities, and the protection of key civil services.
Defence planning upgraded in this direction will, on the basis of assessments, enable the Republic of Slovenia to respond in line with the risk degree of a  state, NATO, and the European Union.
The Ministry of Defence, responsible for the coordination and guidance of defence planning, will continue to facilitate cooperation with all entities responsible for defence planning.
Activities of planning in the provision of support to the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Allied forces will complement NATO activities in the provision of Host Nation Support, and will be coherently developed in the strengthening  of military mobility within the framework of the European Union.
In this way, the coordination and implementation of Host Nation Support and military mobility will be improved.
The Ministry of Defence, together with other competent government authorities, will find solutions and methods to ensure the appropriate capabilities to support national and Allied transport needs and military mobility in the Republic of Slovenia and outside its territory.
Since infrastructure is exposed to contemporary threats, appropriate protective and defence measures, and measures to prevent and mitigate the consequences of such attacks will be adopted.
In planning the effective protection, security and defence of critical infrastructure and strengthening its resilience, close cooperation will be established between the private and public sectors, and between critical infrastructure operators and managers.
RESPONSE TO HYBRID THREATS IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE
In line with the efforts of NATO and the European Union to strengthen resilience in dealing with hybrid threats, national solutions and activities will be prepared and implemented in order to comprehensively address hybrid threats. Coordination and other capabilities to identify and respond to hybrid threats will be developed within this framework.
Situational awareness, resilience to hostile intelligence activities, cyber and information security and defence, strategic communication, and crisis management mechanisms will be enhanced, taking into account various methods of hybrid operation.
Response to hybrid threats within the framework of defence planning and  crisis response measures will be developed, with an emphasis on strengthening the resilience of the state and society, cyber security and defence, civil prepared- ness, and the protection of critical infrastructure.
Within defence planning, measures and procedures will be developed for the event of the operation of non-military instability factors and hybrid factors which, due to their multiplicative effect, may require the engagement of military capabilities to manage and ensure the resilience of the state and society.
Complexity and multidimensionality of hybrid threats
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM CAPABILITIES AND CYBER SECURITY
The importance and role of the capabilities of the communication and information system as one of the key elements affecting the operation and development of defence capacity are constantly growing, due to the intensified digitalization of processes and weapon systems, and the establishment of cyberspace as a domain for military operations.
In parallel with the above, advanced computer technologies have inexorably changed both the theatre  of war and the methods of military operations and defence processes.
Cyber attacks on both state and non-state actors are growing in number, and becoming more aggressive and sophisticated.
in Slovenia or abroad.
The development of capabilities will be based on the preparation and provision of dynamic and flexible information and communication solutions, with an emphasis on the introduction of advanced computer technologies, integration and security, and simple and safe user access.
The interconnection of information systems and various data security domains will enable easier dataflow and thus more effective decision-making, resulting in cost optimization and more economical functioning of the defence system.
By effectively managing cyber threats and responding to cyber security events, a safe and reliable communication and information system will be provided, with its services readily available to all users regardless of location and time.
The most important objectives will be constant raising of awareness with regard to the possibilities enabled by the effective use of information solutions, the active participation of users in improving information systems, and a high level of users’ awareness of cyber threats.
A system of comprehensive management of cyber threats will be established, which will include all actors from the Ministry of Defence.
Cooperation with  the competent national authority and other actors in the system of cyber security will be developed.
The fulfilment of international commitments made in the area of cyber security will be accelerated.
INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY CAPABILITIES
Intelligence and security capabilities aimed at timely detection and countering of threats to the Republic of Slovenia and its defence system will be developed in the field of defence.
The complexity and changeability of contemporary security threats require the adaptation of intelligence and security capabilities.
An assessment of how appropriately the capabilities are placed in the defence system will be made  in order to allow for the effective and expert implementation of tasks.
The subsystem of rapid and safe exchange of data and information between the entities in the intelligence and security community and their users will be modernized.
Thus, the subsystem of early warning, threat detection and situational awareness will be strengthened.
The thorough monitoring of and information on military and other threats likely to affect the security of the Republic of Slovenia and the situation in crisis areas and those areas where members of the security system operate, will continue.
Coordination of work in detecting and counteracting individual threats and data exchange between the entities forming part of the national security system will be strengthened.
In the area of security, the procedures and standards for the protection, vetting and monitoring of people having access to security sensitive work posts, people, facilities, areas and classified information at the Ministry of Defence will be updated.
Processes for the timely identification of security vulnerabiliti- es of the defence system will be developed and modernized. Also, appropriate normative and other solutions will be sought in the area of security.
9	STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION
Given the above, the defence system will develop the capabilities and potentials of strategic communication, complemented by public diplomacy activities, and of all other actors of the national security system to support the implementation of the national security policy and strategic objectives in the field of defence.
Such capabilities are vital for the assertion of the national security and defence interests of the Republic of Slovenia, and represent an essential element of informing society and raising awareness of the importance and role of the defence system in carrying out all functions and activities.
This can contribute to transparency and broader social consent in relation to the functioning and activities of the defence system.
By doing this, the development of strategic communication in the defence system will be inextricably connected to the development of the national concept.
Through the preparation of a strategy, the concept of strategic communication in the defence system will be gradually established in all areas and levels of  the functioning of the defence system, with the purpose of achieving the desired response of selected target audiences to support the implementation of the set objectives.
Strategic development guidance documents will form the basis for the preparation of fundamental messages in the field of military defence, aimed at the widest public, and strengthening the functioning of the state and society in the field of military defence.
10	MEASURES FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WHITE PAPER
The main measures for the implementation of the Defence White Paper of the Republic of
Slovenia 2.
The fulfilment of these measures will be defined by implementing strategic guidance and planning documents, and by amendments to legal and other normative bases for the functioning and development of the defence system  in the Republic of Slovenia.
The implementation of the guidelines and measures contained in the Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia will be reviewed every two years.
To provide the bases for improved effectiveness and development  of the defence system through amendments to the legislation.
1.
To gradually increase defence spending towards 2% of GDP and an
investment share of at least 20% of defence spending.
To implement measures to strengthen civil defence and preparedness, and in doing so the resilience of the state and society, with an emphasis on the continual operation of government at all levels, the continuity of public infrastructure and services, and the uninterrupted provision of energy, information and  communication  support and other resources important for the functioning of the state, the security and the lives of citizens, and for the protection of critical  infrastructure.
To re-define the concept of the contract reserve component  by dividing it into the manoeuvre contract reserve component and the territorial contract reserve component, and to link it with the system of transition between the various forms of military service.
process, with the purpose of effectively responding to hybrid threats. To enhance cooperation between the public and private sectors, and between critical infrastructure operators and managers, to plan the effective protection of critical infrastructure and to strengthen its  resilience.
To upgrade the crisis response measures in the field of defence.
To periodically check, through national crisis management exercises, the crisis management system and the state's ability to promptly and effectively respond to various security threats.
To upgrade the military education and training system.
To renew the system of recruiting members to the Slovenian Armed Forces by improving their labour status and through financial rewards, and to enhance the promotion of the military profession.
To examine the methods of recruiting more personnel in the Slovenian Armed Forces, including a potential introduction of all components  of military service.
To take into account, to the maximum extent possible, the possibilities for joint procurement with other countries or within the agencies  of the European Union and NATO when purchasing military equipment and weapons, including through intergovernmental agreements, in the light of cost optimization and transparency of procurement.
To examine the possibilities and purpose of purchasing used military equipment and weapons.
To strengthen cooperation with and support to the public education system in relation to civic education.
To intensify the introduction of advanced computer and communica- tion technologies into weapons systems and defence processes.
20. in the field of defence within the national cyber security system. To establish a comprehensive system for cyber defence management
The Defence White Paper of the Republic of Slovenia deals with the fundamental challenges which the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia faces,  and defines measures to improve its defence capacity.
The measures to develop the defence system are, as a matter of priority, aimed at ensuring the stable and sufficiently ambitious funding of the defence system; reaching the necessary number of personnel in the Slovenian Armed Forces; completing its professionalization; improving the members’ status; carrying out modernization with a view to building defence capacity; modernizing the key infrastructure for the operation and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces; and strengthening the connection of the defence system with the wider society, and thus achieving better recognition of national defence within society.
Increased investment in defence must be sufficiently ambitious and predictable, and at the same time balanced between financial resources to implement urgent personnel measures, resources to carry out priority modernization projects, and resources to ensure the preparedness  and operation of the defence system in Slovenia and abroad.
Monitoring the successful achievement of targets related to recruiting more personnel in the Slovenian Armed Forces, the changes to the system, the development and modernization of defence capabilities,  and,  consequently, strengthening the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia, will be a continual process which will be based on clearly defined progress indicators.
The effects of the measures to strengthen the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia and, particularly, to improve the capabilities and readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, will be visible in the middle of the long-term period.
DEFENCE WHITE PAPER OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Published by:
Material is also available at:
https://www.gov.si/en/state-authorities/ministries/ministry-of-defence/
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
CONTENT
1 INTRODUCTION
2 CHANGES IN THE SECURITY ENVIRONMENT
2.1 Changes in threats following the end of the Cold War
2.2 Threats to national security in the areas covered by civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia
2.2.1 Political subsystem
2.2.2 Economic subsystem
2.2.3 Media subsystem
2.3 Following sources of thrreat
3 GOALS AND PRINCIPLES OF CIVIL DEFENCE
4 TASKS , JURISDICTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS WITHIN CIVIL DEFENCE
4.1 Tasks of civil defence
4.2 Jurisdictions
5 ORGANISATION OF CIVIL DEFENCE
6 ADMINISTRATION AND LEADERSHIP OF CIVIL DEFENCE
7.2 Economic defence
7.2.1 Support for military defence
7.2.2 Other preparations in the area of economic defence
7.3 Psychological defence
1 INTRODUCTION
The Civil Defence Doctrine proceeds from the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia ( Uradni list RS , 56/01 ) and the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia ( Government of the RS , no .
820-00/2001-1 of 20 December 2001 ) , taking into account also the provisions of the Doctrine on Protection Against Natural and Other Disasters of the Republic of Slovenia ( hereinafter :
the Doctrine ) .
It is based upon up-to-date scientific understandings regarding the organisation and tasks of civil defence and , at the same time , on the tradition of civil defence in the territory of Slovenia .
On the basis of new circumstances in the narrower and broader security environments , and taking into account the strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia that it be included in NATO and the European Union , the Doctrine establishes new frameworks for planning and carrying out civil defence preparations in the Republic of Slovenia .
The Doctrine is based on the starting point that military threats to the Republic of Slovenia have decreased , but it is not ruled out that security conditions may , over the course of time , worsen .
In the future , the tasks of civil defence will broaden to include the management of crises in the regional and wider security environment ( hereinafter :
crises ) that cannot be controlled through the ordinary mechanisms of the state and society .
In the area of economic defence the tasks of civil defence also include the prevention and control of perceptible disruptions or scarcities of goods on the market , in accordance with the provisions regulating the prevention of restricting competition ( hereinafter :
market disruptions ) .
The Doctrine takes into account the following fundamental suppositions and demands :
It is necessary to ensure the continual monitoring of conditions , especially sources of threats , and to adapt the measures of civil defence to these ;
Preparations for war remain the most significant task within the framework of civil defence ; however , security conditions are such at the moment that in particular areas of society they do not demand total engagement .
In these areas preparations are carried out only to the most necessary extent , but in such as way that complete preparation can be ensure in a relatively short time ;
It is necessary to plan and carry out civil defence measures in a comprehensive and deliberate fashion in accordance with the circumstances and effectively , taking their effects into consideration as well ;
It is necessary to broaden the content , tasks and preparations of civil defence to the management of crises and market disruptions ;
Mutual harmonisation between the various elements of civil defence and between civil defence and the other components of the national security system must be ensured ;
Civil defence arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia must be comparable to the solutions that apply in this area in other democratic states , especially in the states of the European Union and NATO ; thus , those that respect the state of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms , and limit these in accordance with the constitution only to such an extent and for such a period of time as is absolutely necessary .
2 CHANGES IN THE SECURITY ENVIRONMENT
Following the end of the Cold War , the new European security arrangement has been shaped on the basis of fundamental equalities , mutual trust and understanding .
On the other hand , rapid and significant changes have also brought about uncertainty and instability .
It is therefore necessary to support endeavours to build peace and stability and , at the same time , to take into account the possibility of negative developments and a renewal of conflicts .
These are constant population growth , the effect of industrialisation on the environment , uncertainty regarding finding reliable sources of energy in the future , the vulnerability of information and communication systems , the problems of agricultural production and supplies , unstable international credit and financial markets , commercial conflicts , and similar issues .
In doing so , many problems at the state level cannot be solved , but must be addressed at the international level .
2.2 Threats to national security in the areas covered by civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia
2.2.1 Political subsystem
With its attainment of independence , the Republic of Slovenia decided upon a democratic , multiparty political system .
It strives for the establishment of relations with other states , especially with neighbouring states , that are based on mutual respect and trust and , at the same time , it wishes to be included in regional and world political , economic , security and defence integration as quickly as possible .
Economic growth and stability exert a significant influence on the stability of a political system , and these ensure societal and personal prosperity .
At the same time , certain external factors can have an indirect influence on this , including refugees and migration , the potential danger of terrorism and organised crime .
2.2.2 Economic subsystem
The Slovenian economy , as a small economy , is already sensitive to global economic oscillations in normal circumstances .
On the other hand , the economic opening of the Republic of Slovenia , alongside unquestionable advantages , also introduces certain problems .
These especially concern the change in the economic structure , the continuous reduction of degrees of self-sufficiency in certain areas and significant attachment to and dependence on individual foreign markets .
In the case of a long-term shortage of strategic resources on the global market , in particular petroleum and other strategic raw materials , it can realistically be expected that it would be more difficult for small states to secure these resources than large ones .
Because of free access to the common European Market , the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union will in general have a favourable effect on economic development and stability , as well as easing access to energy sources and raw materials . However , this could have negative effects in some areas , especially for agriculture .
Along with economic crises , especially in the case of economic pressures and other forms of economic warfare , the Slovenian economy could be confronted with serious difficulties .
Under such circumstances , a decline in foreign investors and the flight of capital from the state would be expected .
In the case of war , economic problems would increase significantly .
In addition to the direct effects of wartime activities on economic facilities and instruments , as well as infrastructure , distinctively negative economic effects would also be expected , such as changes in the structure of consumption , a reduction of the volume of production for certain goods coupled with an increase in the production of military material , a decline in international trade , decreased buying power for the population , an upset in the equilibrium between supply and demand and , along with this , a tendency for increased prices , a lowering of the value of capital , a decline in investment activities , and so on .
2.2.3 Media subsystem
Slovenia has an appropriate personnel and technical basis for effectively informing the domestic and foreign public , both in the area of print media as well as broadcasting .
This also makes possible the prompt and full notification of the public during emergencies and states of war , crises and market disruptions .
With market disruptions , timely and comprehensive information would strengthen the preparedness of the population to support the efforts of the authorities to deal with such conditions , and during war this would mean support for endeavours to acquire suitable assistance for our forces and the augmenting of fighting power and morale in combating the enemy .
2.2.4 Values subsystem
The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines fundamental societal values , which are based on democracy , human rights and freedoms , the rule of law , a social market economy and the safeguarding of the identity of the Slovenian nation , while at the same time respecting the rights of national minorities .
During emergencies and states of war , an important task of civil defence is to ensure the conditions for preserving and strengthening Slovenian national identity as well as societal values .
2.3 Following sources of thrreat
In changing conditions , taking preventative measures and forestalling the grounds for the origins of conflicts and crises is essential .
It is therefore necessary :
To ensure that civil defence preparations proceed from comprehensive assessments of current sources of threats to national security , which are first of all under the purview of the competent ministries .
In this , it is necessary to direct particular attention to crises and military threats to the Republic of Slovenia ;
To achieve a higher degree of adaptation of the civil defence system to changes in the security environment ;
Regardless of the positive development of security conditions in recent times , it is also necessary to take into account the fact that :
The Republic of Slovenia could become a target of political , economic or military extortion ;
A large part of the Republic of Slovenia could be directly threatened by natural and other disasters in its vicinity or in the country itself .
The strategic goal of civil defence is to ensure the quick , flexible and effective resistance of the Republic of Slovenia to various forms of threats to national security in the areas of politics , the economy , the media and information services , and values during emergencies , states of war , crises and market disruptions .
To achieve this strategic goal , preventative measures and measures in case of emergencies , states of war , crises and market disruptions are being planned within the framework of civil defence .
Among the preventative measures that are planned and carried out during peacetime are , in particular , organisational , personnel , material , legal and other preparations for the operation of civil defence ; the working out of defence plans ; ensuring a work force ; the formation of leadership mechanisms ; the harmonisation of planned civil defence measures ; the formation of stockpiles of important goods for defence , supplying the population and the economy ; the formation of suitable information systems for supporting decision-making and the training of those that will carry out activities in the area of civil defence .
In the area of provisions for state agencies and agencies of local self-administration , the goals of civil defence are :
To ensure the uninterrupted operation of the system of authority throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia ;
To protect the freedom of action of the Republic of Slovenia in all areas of society and under all conditions , both within the state and in the international community ;
In the area of economic defence , the goals of civil defence are :
To ensure effective support in carrying out military defence ;
In the area of psychological defence , the goals of civil defence are :
To preserve formal and informal communication among the authorities , the media and the public ;
To strengthen the confidence and preparedness of people for the defence of the democratic political system ;
In the area of other non-military forms of defence , the goals of civil defence are :
To enable the participation of citizens in the defence of the state or in non-violent resistance to the enemy .
In the planning of preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures , the following principles are observed :
The principle of organisation , which means that the organisation of an agency or an organisation remains the same in an emergency or state of war as during peace ;
The principle of elasticity , which ensures that the civil defence system will quickly adapt and operate effectively under all conditions .
In the planning and carrying out of civil defence tasks , we also proceed from the following principles :
Civil defence measures must proceed from realistically and completely assessed sources of threats to national security in the areas concerning civil defence ;
Work and material duty , as well as the carrying out of entire military duty , are introduced when the development of security conditions points to their further worsening and becoming more acute , as well as when the security of the state is directly threatened because of these conditions ;
In the planning , putting into force and carrying out of civil defence measures it is necessary to proceed from the position that , as a rule , fundamental policy changes in specific areas may not be introduced through them , nor may fundamental political and economic arrangements be curtailed ;
The state intervenes in the economy only to the extent that market mechanisms are not sufficiently effective in forestalling disruptions or if , in the conditions that have arisen , the market economy would bring about a shortage of specific goods on the market or excessively increased prices .
The extent and intensity of intervention by the state must be proportional to the disruptions that have arisen in an individual economic or other activity .
This principle is also applied appropriately in other areas of society ;
In the area of psychological defence it is necessary to direct particular emphasis towards providing active and open information on the necessity of measures by the authorities , because it is only in this way that it is possible to ensure the necessary confidence of the population in the authorities .
Armed attack also represents one of the most important starting points in the future for the planning of civil defence , although civil defence is also receiving new tasks .
These are being expressed in the demand that society as a whole strengthen its ability to prevent and manage crises and market disruptions at all levels .
This demands an increased measure of knowledge and experience for dealing with these situations , which means that it is necessary to include administrative , scientific , economic and other specialists in this activity .
In this , it is necessary to distribute responsibility for the realisation of tasks between the state , the economy and other activities , as well as civil defence , no matter that this encroaches upon the sphere of civil defence .
The distribution of responsibility and tasks represents an important basis for the future planning of civil defence measures .
Civil defence contributes to the realisation of vitally important and strategic interests as well as the goals of the national security policy of the Republic of Slovenia in that , for emergencies and states of war , it plans measures for preserving the continuity of the authorities , measures for safeguarding the freedom of action of the authorities both within the state as well as in the international community , measures for ensuring the functional capability of the Slovenian economy and measures for psychological defence .
One of the key goals of national security is the preservation of peace and stability . Therefore a significant portion of the task of civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia is contributing to international efforts aimed to the achievement of this goal .
To supplement and support the military defence of the state and the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in peace support operations ;
To preserve the operation of economic and other activities that are important for defence , and for people's lives and work ;
It is particularly important that the jurisdictions among those carrying out the preparations for civil defence be clear and demarcated , which is a precondition for the effective operation of state agencies , local self-government , and companies and institutes , as well as economic and other activities during an emergency , a state of war , crises and market disruptions .
The general principle is that , as a rule , agencies at the state level , in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ( hereinafter :
Government ) and ministries , are responsible for the organisation of civil defence and the planning of measures for individual tasks of civil defence as well as economic and other activities .
On the other hand , the administration's agencies of territorial organisation , local communities and appointed companies and institutes are responsible for carrying out these measures .
Jurisdictions in connection with the organisation of civil defence and the carrying out of its tasks arise from the constitution and are embodied in legislation .
4.3 Obligations and responsibilities within civil defence
On the basis of a decision by the National Assembly , during an emergency or state of war working duty and material duty may be introduced .
The Government puts forth a proposal for the introduction of working duties on the basis of an appraisal of the circumstances in the area of employment , which is prepared by the ministry responsible for labour in cooperation with other ministries .
In the formulation of the proposal for the introduction of working duties it is necessary to take into account that the interest of the economy is that which will first and foremost preserve employment .
This primarily concerns material resources under their ownership , and only by way of exception other material resources .
This concerns various relations .
In the first place , it concerns the connectedness between the Government , the ministries and Government services , and the territorial organisation of the administration .
The establishment of a national crisis management centre will facilitate the carrying out of tasks at this level , especially from the aspect of the rapid and harmonised adoption of decisions and passing them along to those carrying out the tasks .
The second relation exists between the competent ministries and companies and institutes carrying out activity arising from their responsibilities .
The third relation appears especially in the preparations for civil defence and in the carrying out of its tasks between the ministries and the Ministry of Defence , which performs a coordinating function in the area of preparations for civil defence .
The fourth relation appears between civil defence and military defence .
It is especially important that the jurisdictions and responsibilities among civil defence , other agencies and the Slovenian Armed Forces be clearly delineated , which applies especially to the area of logistics supply for the Slovenian Armed Forces .
6 ADMINISTRATION AND LEADERSHIP OF CIVIL DEFENCE
The experiences of contemporary wars and crises show that events develop with a great intensity and that conditions change quickly .
It is therefore necessary to ensure effective support for agencies of authority in the form of crisis management mechanisms with which conditions will be analysed and proposals for decisions prepared at the same time and , on the other hand , will enable the quick transmission of these decisions to those that lead and carry out of civil defence measures .
An important role in the administration and management of civil defence is also played by the advisory agency for the Government , the council for national security and the state operational defence staff , which ensures the operative harmonisation of civil defence with other subsystems of the national security system .
The ministries manage preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures in activities within their jurisdictions .
To assist the ministers in the decision-making process in the ministries , coordination groups are formed as needed , as crisis management agencies that are comprised of top-level workers and experts from various activities and jurisdictions of the ministry .
Such groups can also be formed in other state agencies , the state administration's agencies of territorial organisation , local communities and in companies , institutes and other organisations whose activity is of particular significance for defence .
As needed , coordinating subgroups can also be formed for economic and psychological defence .
The planning of measures for individual economic and other activities for managing situations in an emergency , a state of war , crises or market disruptions - and especially those that demand continual and comprehensive civil defence preparations - will be based on assessed sources of threats and the results of scientific studies .
Civil defence preparations must be part of the regular activity of those responsible for working out defence plans and defence documents .
Top-level and expert workers in state agencies , agencies of local self-government and companies , institutions and other organisations are therefore included in them , thereby ensuring an expert basis for the solutions planned .
For the effective carrying out of the tasks of civil defence , in all phases of the preparation and carrying out of civil defence measures supervision is ensured that , first and foremost , is carried out by the leaders of civil defence that , at the same time , are directly responsible for the state of preparations in the agency or organisation that they head .
In addition to this , supervision is also carried out by inspection agencies , especially the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence .
The competent ministries , in line with their jurisdiction and as part of expert supervision , also check the carrying out of tasks connected with preparations for civil defence in the agencies of the administration's territorial organisation and in local communities , as well as in companies , institutes and other organisations .
As part of the management of civil defence , the Government has a key supervisory role . It realises this through the supervision of the competent ministries in the carrying out of specific tasks and measures or through indirect monitoring of reports and information from the competent ministries and government services and the acceptance of necessary measures for improving the situation .
The public also has an important supervisory role .
Civil defence is not a closed and isolated system , but functions within society and , for the most part , publicly .
Because all civil defence activities contribute to the realisation of the basic goals and tasks of the defence system , it is necessary that there be a close harmonisation among them , especially between civil and military defence on the one hand , and among the individual activities of civil defence on the other .
The elements of harmonisation are the selection of proper solutions , a suitable selection of measures and the optimal usage of resources .
Harmonisation is also carried out during the preparations for , as well as the carrying out of , civil defence measures .
The Government and the Ministry of Defence are responsible for the harmonisation of preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures at the strategic level , and the competent ministries at the level of individual economic and other activities .
In this , there is applied the principle that the ministry whose jurisdiction predominantly encompasses the specific area is responsible for the harmonisation of tasks in a particular area .
The Ministry of Defence carries out the harmonisation of tasks between military and civil defence .
Therefore the administration for carrying out these tasks must already be appropriately organised , trained and prepared in peacetime .
It is necessary to intensify the introduction of contemporary educational methods , which stimulate the participants to active work and problem solving .
In its contents , it is necessary to direct special emphasis to the civil crises management and civil military cooperation , with the goal of ensuring that , before the Republic of Slovenia is included in the NATO Alliance , as many performers as possible in state agencies , as well as in economic and other activities , become both well acquainted and suitably trained regarding these issues .
7 CIVIL DEFENCE PREPARATIONS FOR EMERGENCIES AND STATES OF WAR , CRISES AND MARKET DISRUPTIONS
In view of the fact that sources of threats have various effects on individual economic and other activities that are not of uniform significance for national security and defence , from the perspective reducing costs the carrying out of preparations for civil defence may be less intense in specific activities than in others .
This means that preparations for civil defence in individual activities are carried out only to the most necessary extent , and in the case of a security deterioration in the political situation they can be strengthened .
This means that , in addition to those activities where preparations for civil defence are carried out as a whole in case of war , it is necessary to ensure complete preparedness for defence in other activities as well , for which the Government shall decide .
It is necessary to give priority to preparations for civil defence in those areas that are of strategic significance for the preservation of the continuity of the authorities , especially for the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces , the preservation of the functional capacity of the economy and the survival of the population , and where it would not be possible to completely carry out preparatory measures in an adjustment period of six months .
These are , especially , preparations in the area of trade , supply , transport , telecommunications , power supply , industrial production , agriculture , health , communal and water management , and culture in work that relates to the protection of cultural heritage .
7.1 Measures taken by state agencies and agencies of local self-administration for operation during war
The basic task in this area , which is not a matter only for civil defence but also for other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia , is the preservation of the independence and sovereignty of the state and ensuring its freedom of operation in the international community .
The Government of the Republic of Slovenia holds the basic tasks in this area , and ministries and other stare agencies hold them in individual economic and other activities in accordance with their jurisdictions .
In connection with the preservation of the continuity of the authorities , civil defence bears the following tasks in particular :
Preserving the freedom of decision making and of the action of agencies of authority both within the state and in the international community ;
The ministries and other state agencies are responsible during peacetime for carrying out preparations for civil defence in the activities within their jurisdiction and , in crises and a state of war or during market disruptions , also for organising and performing their tasks .
It is therefore already necessary in peacetime to carry out the mutual harmonisation of organisational , personnel , material and other preparations for the operation of individual economic and other activities during an emergency , a state of war , crises and market disruptions .
These preparations must make possible a flexible and adaptable handling both with regard to the organisation and the work of the agencies of authority , and also with regard to the activities for which the specific agencies are responsible .
State agencies and agencies of local self-government must also ensure the continuity of operations if connections with higher or adjacent agencies are broken .
The competent ministries and other state agencies must issue appropriate guidelines for the carrying out of tasks in individual economic and other activities during wartime .
Guidelines and similar content must also be issued for companies , institutes and other organisations whose activity the Government judges to be of particular importance for defence .
The Ministry of Defence's system of administrative links will be modernised and economised .
At the same time , the conditions for secure communication between state agencies will be ensured .
The Ministry of Defence ensures to the most necessary extent the conditions for the operation of the president , the Government and the National Assembly in wartime .
The measures connected with this are planned in an economical fashion and mutually harmonised as part of the defence plan of the Ministry of Defence .
7.2.1 Support for military defence
7.2.1.1 Civil defence cooperation in international peacekeeping operations
With the participation of civil defence in the international peacekeeping operations , the Republic of Slovenia , as a responsible actor in the international community , contributes to preserving peace and stability in the world in line with its capabilities .
These activities are also the best answer to current sources of threats , because preventative action can forestall crises or at least mitigate them .
Special attention is thereby directed toward the mutual harmonisation of processes in individual state agencies that participate in peace support operations and with the Slovenian Armed Forces .
Within the framework of this , the tasks , jurisdictions and responsibilities of the various actors in civil defence will be clearly delineated . The ministries and other state agencies will define their areas and tasks , in the realisation of which the Republic of Slovenia may participate with personnel or material sources .
In the cooperation of civil defence in international peacekeeping operations it is necessary to particularly keep in mind the following principles :
The principle of harmonisation , which means that the preparations and carrying out of these activities must be harmonised with the tasks of the actors involved ;
The principle of proportionality , which means that the extent of engagement of civil defence must be proportional to the conditions that have arisen , contingents of other countries and the capability of the Republic of Slovenia to offer assistance ;
The principle of sustainability and continuity , which means that preparations in this area must enable the uninterrupted carrying out of tasks over a longer period of time ;
The principle of adaptability , which means that the carrying out of activities must be planned out in a manner such that they can be rapidly adapted to circumstances that arise ;
The principle of concluding contracts , which means that the engagement of civil defence capacity in such activities , with the exception of state agencies , shall take place on a voluntary basis and , as a rule , through the concluding of appropriate contracts ;
The principle of interoperability , which means that preparations and the carrying out of tasks in this area must take place in a manner such that it is possible to ensure successful participation with the civil defence capacities of other countries that participate in the carrying out of international peacekeeping operations .
From the perspective of civil defence , it is important for the support of military defence to include economic capacity and other factors in the logistic supply of the armed forces - that is , the Slovenian Armed Forces and , following the eventual admission of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO , alliance forces as well .
The tasks and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces have a significant influence on the planning and carrying out of tasks in civil defence .
One of the chief goals of preparation for military defence is also ensuring an appropriate level of interoperability with NATO in the area of logistics .
This is an important point of departure , because it also defines the tasks and activities of civil defence in this area .
A comprehensively and mutually harmonised solution to issues of the logistical supply to the armed forces ensures a more economical use of economic and other capacities of the state and its sources during an emergency , a state of war or crises .
As part of working out the concept of Host Nation Support for the reception , placement and transit of alliances forces , the engagement of civil capacities will also be defined , whereby an appropriate information system will be formulated that will facilitate the carrying out of logistical supply to armed forces in the Slovenian Armed Forces and also in civil defence .
The system for material and health supply for the Slovenian Armed Forces must enable the rapid delivery of necessary sources of these to the armed forces , regardless of the dynamics of the circumstances .
At the same time the system must be sustainable , which means that it must effectively operate throughout the entire period of an emergency , state of war or crisis .
As needed , civil defence will also be included in support for units of the Slovenian Armed Forces that are participating in international peacekeeping operations .
In connection with this , necessary organisational , legal and other solutions will be formulated .
In the planning and execution of logistical support for the Slovenian Armed Forces - and , following the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO , to Alliance forces as well - in addition to the principles that apply for the cooperation of civil defence with international peacekeeping operations the following principles will also be observed :
The principle of demonstrating needs , which means that logistic supply is planned and carried out on the basis of demonstrated needs ;
The principle of responsibility , which means that the competent ministries shall be responsible for the realisation of the need for logistic supply , and shall for the realisation of these needs define companies , institutions and other organisations that shall then conclude appropriate contracts with the Ministry of Defence .
Within the framework of the Ministry of Defence , organisational units - in accordance with their responsibilities - are responsible for the planning and realisation of demonstrated needs .
The principle of concluding contracts , which means that that logistic supply is , as a rule , planned and carried out on the basis of concluded contracts . In a case in which the competent ministry designates a public enterprise or public institution , the founder of which is the state or a local community , for the realisation of demonstrated needs , in principle a contract will not be concluded .
7.2.2 Other preparations in the area of economic defence
In the Republic of Slovenia economic defence is carried out on the basis of a market economy .
This means that market mechanisms preserving the balance between supply and demand will also operate , to the extent possible , during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions .
Although it will not be possible to guarantee the range characteristic of normal circumstances and the supply of certain goods will be limited during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions of a longer duration , in the initial phase of such situations general restrictions on consumption will not be planned .
Through appropriate measures a reduction of demand or consumption will thus be planned .
The competent state agencies will plan measures for directing supply and demand , such as appeals to economise , restrictions , contingencies of use and , only in extreme cases , the rationing of supplies .
Measures restricting consumption will be planned in a flexible manner , adapted to the situation at hand , and will not be aimed at curtailing the trade cycle .
It is therefore necessary to anticipate what are likely to be the least intrusive interventions - and it is only when these , particularly from the perspective of the operation of the market , are no longer workable that it is possible to apply more stringent methods .
In doing so , the solutions must be simple , because the very restricted time for measures does not allow complex solutions .
This also demands an appropriate material preparedness from economic defence , particularly from the aspect of appropriate reserves .
At the same time , it is necessary to ensure the constant monitoring of domestic and international conditions , especially in the area of trade and supply .
These articles are of vital significance for supplying the population , the Slovenian Armed Forces , security and other forces and the economy .
Necessary measures must be planned that will ensure the increased importation of strategic articles and will enable the export of those goods that are not of strategic importance for the defence of the state and , and the same time , ensure the reduction of demand through both economic and administrative measures .
In formulating these , account must be taken of the possibility of domestic production , import , the extent of stockpiles held by producers and dealers , and also financial possibilities .
Priority will be given to goods for basic supply , sources of energy , medicines and medical materials .
Price increases would be expected during an emergency , state of war or market disruptions .
It is therefore necessary to plan preparations in order that the state intervene only in certain types of articles that are important for the survival of the population , or if price relations are disturbed to a greater degree .
At the same time , it also is necessary to provide for greater supervision of this area .
7.2.2.2 Traffic
It is possible to ensure the import and distribution of goods during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions only through the help of a well organised transport system , especially because the sea and air transportation routes to the Republic of Slovenia are vulnerable .
It will therefore be necessary to increase the degree of mutual harmonisation of solutions for the operation of economic and other activities from the perspective of traffic activity .
7.2.2.3 Information communication technologies
The area of information communication technologies is quite vulnerable with regard to sabotage , terrorist activities and break-ins .
Such attacks could have serious consequences for the operation of the country as a whole .
The regular and sufficient provision of energy is a condition for the operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces , economic and other activities , and the existence of the population .
In the area of energy , the Republic of Slovenia is entirely dependent on the import of petroleum , natural gas and uranium oxide .
For a reliable supply during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions , it is necessary to increase reserves of energy sources .
The possibilities for increasing the capacity of warehouses for natural gas are very limited .
The degree of self-sufficiency in electrical energy and coal is sufficient in peacetime , but in an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions it could be considerably reduced , especially if it were no longer possible to make use of the capacities of the Krško nuclear plant and the Šoštanj thermoelectric plant .
From the aspect of preparation of civil defence , the continued construction of hydroelectric plants is therefore important , the capacities of which would greatly mitigate shortages under such conditions .
It would likewise be advantageous , particularly in the most pressing cases , to renovate existing and construct alternative power lines , especially from Primorska to Ljubljana .
Regarding the introduction of restrictions on the supply of electricity , the main responsibility for carrying out this task will be assumed by companies in the electrical industry .
In addition to the cited measures , the competent ministry and electrical industry will also plan the most necessary measures for protecting the system of the electrical industry .
7.2.2.5 Industrial and agricultural production
Industry represents an important share of the Slovenian economy , because it creates a large part of net domestic production and employees a large number of workers .
The territorial distribution of industrial production capacities from the perspective of defence is not the most advantageous , because many industrial facilities are located in the broader border area .
In an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions , the preservation of industrial production is of special significance , because many of them can contribute to the support of defence , enable supply to other economic branches and the population , and ensure the operation of workplaces as well .
The competent agencies will therefore anticipate the necessary measures for ensuring raw materials for industrial production , especially that which is significant from the aspect of defence .
As part of this , on the basis of the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces and estimated export possibilities , the role and extent of intended production will be defined , in which the basic starting point will be the economic interest of the economy in that kind of production .
Agricultural production is important in order to ensure the regular and sufficient supply of the population , especially during war .
A characteristic of Slovenian agriculture is that it is quite fractured , which reduces harvests and increases costs .
The capacities of the food processing industry enable the processing of the majority of agricultural products produced in the country .
To ensure agricultural production during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions , the competent ministry will plan necessary measures , especially for ensuring the necessary quantities of seeds , fertilisers and chemical protection for plants , as well as veterinary medicines and instruments .
7.2.2.6 Health and social protection
The tasks in both of these areas will not change during an emergency or state of war , although their extent could increase , particularly during wartime .
During wartime health care must also carry out additional tasks , especially health care for the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces .
The activation and engagement of additional capacities will therefore be planned , including those outside the peacetime purview of public health institutes .
Their planned formation will begin ( at least one hospital will be completed annually ) .
Within the framework of the doctrine for the operation of public health services during war conditions , there will also be determined mutual connections and demarcations of jurisdiction , as well as tasks for the planning , organising and ensuring of health care for the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces through public and military health service .
The effective resolution of more acute health problems also demands the provision of an adequate material basis both for the increased health care needs of the population and also for carrying out additional tasks .
The formation of these reserves is also significant from the perspective of major natural and other disasters as well as inclusion in international peacekeeping operations .
In the area of social protection , during an emergency or state of war there will be preserved all of those forms of social assistance and care that directly resolve social pressures and ensure the most necessary protection , maintenance and assistance for all socially threatened and unsupplied inhabitants .
It will be necessary to direct work in this area to preventative and curative efforts , in which it is necessary to plan so that , especially in wartime , the extent of social protective activities will increase significantly .
The priority tasks of communal activities in an emergency or state of war will be the production and distribution of water , the treatment and disposal of wastewater , ensuring the operation of burial services and the removal and dumping of trash .
The supply of potable water is of strategic significance during wartime .
In view of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is exploiting only about 30 % of its water resources , it is also necessary to plan measures for such conditions for activating additional sources of potable water in a relatively short time .
7.3 Psychological defence
Psychological defence acquires importance in an information society .
A large part of the issues in this area will be resolved through the formation of an expert inter-departmental group that will be comprised of experts from administration , the media and science .
Their tasks will primarily be the study of modern forms of psychological warfare and advising the media .
In the preparations for and the carrying out of psychological defence the following principles will especially be observed :
The principle of harmonisation between those carrying out various tasks ;
The principle of managing activities from one location ;
The principle of trust and mutual cooperation between the state and the media ;
The principle of sustainability and uninterrupted operation ;
The principle of professionalism .
7.4 Other non-military forms of defence
In this area no special preparations will be carried out .
Among these are especially demonstrations , strikes , boycotts , obstructions and other forms of civil disobedience as well as diversions and sabotage .
On the one hand , the Doctrine represents a concretisation of defence strategy and , on the other hand , it defines the goals , principles and organisation of civil defence as a long-term point of departure for the carrying out of tasks in this area .
The Doctrine is the foundation for the preparation of doctrines in this area that will , in accordance with needs , more precisely define doctrinal solutions connected to the preparation and carrying out of civil defence in individual economic and other activities .
The Government will monitor the realisation of this Doctrine and , as needed , will supplement and adjust it in accordance with changes in the security environment .
SLOVENIAN ARMED FORCES
CENTER FOR MILITARY HISTORY
Author :
Albin Mikulič
September 2003
EUROPE AT THE END OF THE EIGHTIES
Berlin , 9 November 1989
After 28 years , the Berlin Wall falls .
The German Democratic Republic opens its western borders ; citizens from both Germanies are allowed to freely visit each other again .
One of the most painful periods of post-war German history is over .
Europe in 1990
----- the border between Eastern and Western Europe
The fall of the Berlin Wall is an historical event symbolizing the end of the Cold War .
Germany is reunited .
The year 1989 saw dramatic changes in Eastern Europe . These changes also had a major impact on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and in Slovenia .
In Poland , the Solidarnost Trade Union took over . In 1990 , Vaclav Havel , a writer and a fighter for human rights , was appointed the Czech President .
Unlike the velvet revolutions in Hungary , the Czech Republic and Poland , the people's uprising in Romania was extremely cruel .
President Ceausescu was shot .
In May 1990 , Boris Nikolajevič Yeltsin , who was in favor of rapid and radical political and economic changes , was appointed the first President of the Russian Federation by the Moscow Parliament .
After the political changes in Eastern Europe in 1991 , the military part of the Warsaw Pact was dissolved . A few months later , the political committee of the Eastern defense alliance was also disbanded .
In all former communist countries in Europe , old regimes were replaced with democratic governments .
Yugoslavia up to 1991
Presidents of the former Yugoslav republics : Milan Kučan , Slovenia ; Alia Izetbegović , Bosnia-Herzegovina ; Kiro Gligorov , Macedonia ; Franjo Tuđman , Croatia ; and Slobodan Milošević , Serbia . Momir Bulatović , President of Montenegro , is not pictured .
Pictures of Milošević were widespread in public gatherings in Serbia , and the majority of texts on posters were directed against Slovenian politicians .
This poster shows the famous " Hafner's finger " . At the 17th session of the Federal Party Congress , Vinko Hafner pointed his finger at Slobodan Miloševič accusing him of non-communist behavior .
A typical day in Kosovo
The situation in Kosovo was extremely tense .
Albanian police officers were replaced by Serbian police officers equipped with YPA ( Yugoslav People's Army ) armored vehicles painted blue .
In the early 80s , severe disagreements among the republics emerged .
The first interethnic disputes broke out between the Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo .
Disputes between those who advocated greater autonomy for the republics and those who represented centralist and unitarian movements were increasingly severe .
Slovenia was against the movement to overcome problems through centralization and unification of the country .
SLOVENIA , THE TRIAL AGAINST THE FOUR
On 31 May 1988 , on a request by the YPA leadership , the Slovenian State Security Service arrested three journalists who worked for Mladina magazine and a YPA non-commissioned officer , accusing them of the illegal possession of a classified military document .
In the summer of 1988 , the trial against the four was conducted at the courthouse on Roška street in Ljubljana .
The Military Court sentenced the four to prison .
When the accused , Janez Janša , David Tasič , Ivan Borštner and Franci Zavrl , came out of the courthouse , they were welcomed by a crowd of people from all over Slovenia .
The arrest of the four resulted in the establishment of the Human Rights Committee , which had many members under the leadership of Igor Bavčar .
Founders of DEMOS
At the end of 1989 , the opposition parties united as the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia or DEMOS . Jože Pučnik was elected President of DEMOS .
The negative response by the federal leadership and the majority of the republics made Slovenian national and political unity even stronger .
The emergence of democratic parties in the first half of 1989 ( SKZ , SDZ , SDZS , ZS , and KSG ) was a clear sign of political pluralism in Slovenia .
The Slovenian Communist Association did not want to comprehend , let alone accept , this fact . Therefore , it used the Socialist Federation ( SZDL ) and the mass media in an attempt to prevent the political functioning of the new opposition organizations .
Upon the establishment of the Social Democrats , it also sought the assistance of the police in preventing new political organizations from becoming political parties within the SZDL .
Jože Pučnik , the emergence of DEMOS , Nova revija , Ljubljana 1996
THE MAY DECLARATION
The May Declaration
On 8 May 1989 , the opposition parties introduced to the public the May Declaration , a document which claimed a sovereign Slovenian state and its right to make a free decision on its integration with other countries . On 22 June 1989 , the Slovenian leadership presented the Fundamental Charter , which stated they were still in favor of a Federal Yugoslavia .
The May Declaration , which was called an " Open Session of the RK ZSMS Presidency " for fear it might be prohibited , was read by the poet Tone Pavček .
The public protest gathering was at the Kongresni trg square in Ljubljana .
Assertions in the May Declaration were included in the basic program of the emerging democratic opposition parties .
Poster from the 14th special ZKJ Congress
Slovenian representatives demanded a debate on actions needed to solve the crisis in Yugoslavia .
Most of the representatives were against this proposal so the Slovenian delegation walked out of the Congress early .
This resulted in the collapse of the Communist Party .
All attempts to continue the Congress failed .
In November 1990 , the Yugoslav Communist Association , a movement for Yugoslavia , was established and was mainly comprised of YPA servicemembers . The Yugoslav Communist Association had no significant impact on later developments in Yugoslavia .
When the Slovenian and Croatian communists decided to support national politics and with the death of Tito , the last obstacles which had maintained an intact Yugoslavia were gone .
Just the YPA was left caught in political intrigues , and its leadership succumbed to the idea of a Greater Serbia .
Ljubljana , 5 February 1990 , police officers return from Kosovo
As requested by the Slovenian leadership , the Slovenian police officers deployed to Kosovo as part of the Federal police detachment , returned home .
A large political gathering at which the May Declaration was introduced .
MULTI-PARTY ELECTIONS IN SLOVENIA
Debate of RS presidential candidates ( from left to right ) Milan Kučan , Ivan Kramberger , Dr. Jože Pučnik and Dr. Marko Demšar
President of the RS Assembly , Dr. France Bučar ( left ) and President of the new Slovenian Government , Lojze Peterle ( right )
Milan Kučan , the newly elected President of the RS Presidency .
Dr. Jože Pučnik , President of DEMOS
The RS Executive Council was elected on 17 May 1990 .
The first multi-party elections were held in Slovenia from 8 to 22 April 1990 , 52 years after the last ones .
This was a key milestone in the creation of the new country .
The new government was also elected with Lojze Peterle as President of the Government and also president of the strongest opposition party , the Slovenian Christian Democratic Party .
At the constitutional meeting of the National Assembly on 17 May 1990 , Dr. France Bučar was elected President .
In the second round of presidential elections , Milan Kučan got 58 % of the votes , thus winning the elections and defeating his rival , Dr. Jože Pučnik .
Other members of the RS Presidency were Dr. Matjaž Kmecl , Ivan Oman , Ciril Zlobec and Dr. Dušan Plut .
DISARMAMENT OF THE TERRITORIAL DEFENSE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
SZ Order no .
625 , dated 15 May 1990
Commandant , Territorial Defense of the Republic of Slovenia
Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar
The Chief of the Territorial Defense Headquarters of the Republic of Slovenia ( RS TD HQ ) , Major General Drago Ožbolt , signer of the order on the transfer of weapons , ammunition and explosive ordnance to YPA storage sites .
Šentjur near Celje , the afternoon of 19 May 1990
Weapons and ammunition are being moved from the Regional TD HQ
In January 1990 , General Hočevar had already demanded that the subordinate territorial defense headquarters submit data on the quantity and types of weapons in YPA military posts .
Based on the data obtained , an order was issued on 15 May 1990 that weapons , ammunition and explosive ordnance be moved to YPA storage facilities .
The task was supposed to be top secret , and no one in the RS leadership was informed .
This meant disarmament of the RS Territorial Defense Forces .
Preparations for the confiscation of the weapons were started several months prior to the execution and the confiscation was planned to be carried out so that it would coincide with the end of the mandate of the President of the SFRY , Janez Drnovšek , and the change of government in the Republic of Slovenia .
RESISTANCE AGAINST THE CONFISCATION OF TERRITORIAL DEFENSE WEAPONS
At the very beginning of their mandates , Igor Bavčar , Secretary of Internal Affairs , and Janez Janša , Secretary of National Defense , had to face the problem of the Slovenian territorial defense disarmament .
Immediate action was necessary to stop any further dispersement of weapons to YPA storage sites .
The Slovenian National Assembly
The first meeting of the new Slovenian National Assembly took place on 4 May 1990 .
The YPA representative in the RS National Assembly , Colonel Milan Aksentijević , demanded that the order for the transfer of weapons be fully carried out .
He used persuasion and threats to prevent the delegates from adopting measures that would lead to independence .
A letter from members of the Slovenske Konjice Regional Territorial Defense HQ requesting immediate action to prevent further confiscation of weapons .
In the afternoon of 19 May , on a request from the Secretariat of the Republic of Slovenia for National Defense , the RS Presidency sent a telegram to the municipalities advising them to stop surrendering weapons .
By the time the prohibition was issued , approximately 70 % of all weapons had already been moved to YPA storage sites . In addition , five defense authorities at the municipal level had also had their weapons confiscated .
The false driver's license of the president of the municipality of Kočevje , Dr. Mihael Petrovič .
In order to assure the safety of MSNZ project leaders , certain tricks were necessary , such as false documents for the main MSNZ actors .
MGV 176 Machine Gun
In the summer of 1990 , the firm Gorenje developed weapons for short distance combat .
During the same summer , new camouflage uniforms were tested in the Kočevje forests for field training purposes .
Gotenica , Summer 1990
In Kočevje , the communist authorities had underground facilities ready to retreat to in case of an emergency or war .
The area , kept under a very strict security regime , extended over 200 square kilometers .
In 1990 , the newly elected government decided to open Gotenica and its surroundings to the public .
A special commission was appointed headed by Prime Minister Lojze Peterle whose task was to identify what there was on the so-called Maček's territory .
There was also a subcommission appointed headed by Tone Krkovič .
Its task was to find out how much ammunition and how many weapons there were in the area of Gotenica .
Later , it turned out that greater quantities of weapons had been expected to be found .
Gotenica was an important location for the transportation of weapons to MSNZ units in Slovenia .
The reconciliation in Kočevski Rog was conducted in front of the mass grave of the members of the homeguard .
In the crowd of over ten thousand people was the President of the Republic , Milan Kučan , and the Archbishop of Ljubljana , Dr. Alojzij Šuštar .
On this occasion , a monument made by Metod Frlic was raised to the victims of postwar killings .
Rade Klisarič , a member of KOS ( counterintelligence service ) employed by the territorial defense , was responsible for the collection of data on the YPA .
A round-the-clock control was implemented over all important YPA facilities , movements of units , training of YPA units and activities at the Republic Territorial Defense Headquarters still under the command of Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar .
Timely information was important for the officials at the Republic Secretariat for National Defense and at the Republic Secretariat for Internal Affairs so that they could make appropriate decisions .
Based on the intelligence material gathered , an assessment was made of causes and possibilities for YPA action in Slovenia .
Later , these findings served as a good basis for the drawing up of the Ordinance for the Use of the MSNZ .
The declaration of the sovereign Republic of Slovenia
Kočevje Utility Administration
On 23 August 1990 , immediate MSNZ leadership held a meeting in the Kočevje Utility Administration building .
During the meeting , the MSNZ organizational chart was approved and listed the first and last names of the most important organizers as well as the units up to the municipal level .
Weapons were hidden in the well ( marked in the picture ) .
During the MSNZ project , there were several secret weapon and ammunition storage sites in Slovenia intended for the use of MSNZ units .
They were distributed across the country in the custody of the most reliable individuals .
A decision was made to appoint Tone Krkovič MSNZ Chief .
In the next few days , Igor Bavčar issued decisions appointing all regional MSNZ chiefs who , in turn , issued decisions appointing their assistants and municipal MSNZ chiefs .
As early as the summer of 1990 , the Slovenian National Assembly had started debating legislation pertaining to independence .
A timeframe of one year was set for the adoption of the new Slovenian constitution and the establishment of a procedure to determine which federal regulations were no longer valid in Slovenia . In addition , the Slovenian representatives were recalled from the Federal Assembly .
With constitutional changes on 28 September 1990 , the Assembly voided several federal regulations in Slovenia and took over the decision-making process concerning compulsory military service and the command of the RS Territorial Defense .
Federal authorities and some of the republics tried to force Slovenia to revoke these measures as well as the declaration of sovereignty .
The business premises of Anton Županc , Stranje 28 , Senovo , a secret storage site for weapons and ammunition for the needs of the MSNZ Krško municipal headquarters .
Territorial defense weapons storage site in Ljubljana
It was often the case that people who worked for the territorial defense and were members of the MSNZ stole weapons owned by the territorial defense and stored in YPA storage sites .
They had to be very careful not to be discovered .
A lot of weapons and ammunition were collected in this manner .
On 7 September 1990 , a meeting which was very important to the future work of the MSNZ was held in Pristava nad Stično .
At the meeting attended by Janez Janša , Igor Bavčar , Tone Krkovič , Vinko Beznik and Jože Kolenc , the existing situation and the measures taken concerning the organization of the MSNZ were analyzed . An overall action plan was finalized .
Based on the approved Directive from the Chief of the RS National Protection for the Demonstrating , Partial or Total Use of MSNZ , the necessary working documents and charts were prepared .
The meeting in Pristava was an historical one since a document assuring protection for the process of achieving Slovenian independence was approved .
REBELS WITH A CAUSE
Igor Bavčar also appointed MSNZ chiefs in 13 regions , and they , in turn , appointed chiefs for the municipal MSNZ headquarters in all 62 municipalities .
A meeting of the leading MSNZ members in September 1990
A Territorial Defense Protection Brigade storage site in Gotenica , from where a lot of weapons and ammunitions for MSNZ units across Slovenia were distributed .
Most of the distributions were conducted at night under the protection of special police units .
Delo , 4 October 1990
The highest national decoration for MSNZ members in recognition of their contribution to Slovenian independence .
In his address , he pointed out the importance of the MSNZ in 1990 when the new Slovenian state was being established .
The MSNZ project is unique in Slovenian history .
It was initiated under special circumstances , during the most sensitive period of the working towards Slovenian independence , and in accordance with real political and military conditions .
There was a lot at stake , which was also true of the goals set .
If we had not taken the risk at that time , there would probably not be an independent Slovenia today .
Those who were against the risk and against the project are usually the first and loudest in claiming the merit or even in awarding medals to others . This is not unique only to Slovenia or the MSNZ project .
However , such behavior cannot change facts retrospectively . As time goes by , events often become less clear .
Courageous actions imprinted on the history of a nation keep on living , are sacred to the values of a nation , and make new generations proud of their history .
The MSNZ project is one of these actions .
Janez Janša
OCCUPATION OF THE REPUBLIC TERRITORIAL DEFENSE HEADQUARTERS
In reality , it was a » minor strike « , led from Belgrade and carried out by Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar , who had been removed , and the Commander of the 5th Military District , General Konrad Kolšek .
Initial reaction from Slovenes was very strong , but they calmed down at the news that the headquarters had already been moved to another location under the command of the acting chief Janez Slapar .
In front of the Republic Secretariat for National Defense , Ljubljana
The Republic Secretariat for National Defense was protected by MORiS members wearing new uniforms made in the Kočevje firm OPREMA and armed with MGV machine guns .
On 19 October 1990 , after a few days of operation on Prežihova street , the RS TD HQ moved to new premises in " Kardelj's Villa " in Tacen .
After inspection of the territorial defense honor guard , the new premises were opened by the RS President , Milan Kučan .
On 28 September 1990 , the Presidency appointed reserve Major Janez Slapar the new Acting Chief of the Slovenian Territorial Defense Headquarters .
This provoked violent opposition among the YPA military leadership .
The Federal Secretary of National Defense stated that Slovenia was creating its own armed forces .
In his reply to this statement , Janez Janša , the Republic Secretary of Defense , asked where they were when Serbia changed its constitution and included much more radical provisions .
On 2 October , the SFRY Presidency decided that the Commander of the 5th Military District in Zagreb would take over the command of the Slovenian Territorial Defense .
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE SLOVENIAN ARMED FORCES
Tone Krkovič , Commander of MORiS Special Brigade , reporting to the Acting Chief of the TD HQ , Major Janez Slapar .
Inspection of the formation
Brigade members wore different uniforms depending on their specialty and unit .
Technical equipment
It was learned that the Slovenian territorial defense units were armed with SAR-80 rifles and new anti-tank resources .
After the formation , MORiS members acted out a scenario of an " attack on a building " exercise and proved that they were also trained for special tasks .
17 December 1990 was a cold winter day in Kočevska Reka , and yet it was a special day .
It was marked by an event that had a major impact on the later development of events , brought dramatic changes to the Slovenian nation and helped fulfill a thousand-year-old dream for an independent Slovenian state .
On this day , the MORiS Special Brigade first stood in formation in Kočevska Reka .
Open threats by the YPA motivated brigade servicemembers even more and instigated their pride as if they were aware that the new Slovenian Armed Forces were being formed .
The pictures broadcast on TV conveyed a clear message , " All right ! We are here waiting for you !"
MORiS was the first unit in the Slovenian Armed Forces where the word Homeland started with a capital letter .
PLEBISCITE FOR A SOVEREIGN AND INDEPENDENT SLOVENIA
Floods in the Celje area
The most affected areas were the Savinja Valley and the wider Celje area .
Many families lost all their property , bridges collapsed , there were landslides .
Not only Slovenians living in Slovenia but also many countrymen abroad voted for an independent Slovenia .
Celebration in front of the Ljubljana Town Hall
After the plebiscite results were announced on 26 December , Slovenia was on its feet , and most Slovenians celebrated this historical day until late in the night .
In the fall of 1990 , Slovenia proposed to the Federation and all the republics that an agreement on confederation be signed .
All of the republics but Croatia refused this proposal .
A mixture of radicalism on the part of DEMOS , which was constantly reminding Yugoslavia that in the long run changes could not be prevented , and the expected reserved posture by the political parties from the previous system bore results .
Despite differing positions , it was agreed that the plebiscite would be valid and honorable for Slovenians if more than half of those who had the right to vote were in favor .
As the music of Prešeren's Toast played on 26 December 1990 , the Assembly solemnly announced the plebiscite results .
Exercise preparations
The exercise Premik-91 ( Movement 91 ) was led by the Slovenian Republic Territorial Defense Headquarters .
There was also a MORiS brigade participating in the exercise tasked with setting up ambushes .
The movement of territorial defense units was carried out mostly with vehicles assigned to the reserve component and " mobilized " for this exercise .
In the Sodražice district , a mock air raid on a convoy of vehicles was carried out .
The exercise objectives were to carry out mobilization in order to verify the tactical operations of TD units during attack following a movement to contact and counter-commando combat .
TD units from the 6th and 2nd Regional TD HQs and the MORiS special brigade participated in this exercise .
The exercise started with mobilization in the Vogrsko district near Nova Gorica , followed by movement in the direction of Postojna-Sodražica-Kočevje-Trebnje , with the final destination being Šmarjeta in the Dolenjska region .
A lot of activities were carried out during the movement of the unit .
The unit engaged in anti-aircraft and anti-helicopter combat , and in Stari Log na Kočevskem it engaged in an ambush operation . It also conducted terrain surveillance since there was a danger of enemy reconnaissance commando units .
We were ready .
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE IG AND PEKRE TRAINING CENTERS
Commandant , 510th Training Center , Ig Major Bojan Šuligoj
Commandant , 710th Training Center , Pekre Major Andrej Kocbek
Pekre
For the first time in history , the Slovenian nation had its own peacetime soldiers .
In April 1991 , the first squad and platoon leader and company commander courses started in the new TD Training Center in Poljče in the Gorenjska region .
On May 15 , the first soldiers arrived .
Military service was completed in modernized barracks ; sound relationships were established and the foundations for building respect for military persons were set .
On 2 June 1991 , the first peacetime soldiers swore their allegiance to the country at Ig and in Pekre .
PEKRE , 23 MAY 1991
The 710th Territorial Defense Training Center in Pekre
Many inhabitants from Maribor gathered in front of the 710th Territorial Defense Training Center preventing new YPA units from entering .
A special police unit from Maribor protected all access routes to the surrounded training center in Pekre .
On 23 May 1991 , the YPA tried to enforce its will at the Territorial Defense Training Center in Pekre near Maribor .
It used its armored vehicles and military policemen to surround the center .
It also used threats to get to the conscripts which would probably have meant the end of the beginning of the Slovenian armed forces .
However , training center personnel would not yield and were ready to use weapons if necessary .
This did not happen .
Many people from Maribor also organized demonstrations to defend Slovenian independence and freedom .
A DAY EARLIER IN PRIMORSKA REGION
The barricade stopped the advance of the YPA armored vehicle convoy ; the soldiers who were escorting the convoy had their weapons ready to fire .
Vrhpolje , 26 June
Angry villagers stopped the armored convoy with a barricade .
Vipava , 26 June , evening
Krvavi potok , 26 June 1130
On 26 June at border crossings all over Slovenia , the border entry signs were replaced with new ones saying the Republic of Slovenia .
At several border crossings , there were problems which required a police presence .
Territorial defense members , along with police officers , escorted them and helped increasingly upset locals set up road barricades .
Members of the Territorial Defense and the police were instructed to avoid conflict and not to be the first to use force .
At 1430 hours , a young 2nd lieutenant fired at the barricade in Divača , fortunately without consequences .
Despite the problems , YPA units were quite successful in carrying out the order and occupied several border crossings with armored vehicles .
THE DECLARATION OF AN INDEPENDENT AND SOVEREIGN REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA , LJUBLJANA , 26 JUNE 1991
This was a grand event .
Members of the Slovenian Territorial Defense raising the Slovenian flag
On 25 June 1991 , the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a constitutional law on the coat of arms , the flag and the Basic Charter on the Independence and Sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia .
On 26 June at 2115 hours in front of the Slovenian Parliament building , a celebration began upon the declaration of the independent and sovereign Republic of Slovenia .
Archbishop Dr. Alojzij Šuštar blessed a newly planted linden tree . There was a cultural program with the actor Polde Bibič , the police band and the " Slovenski oktet " octet choir .
THE YUGOSLAV PEOPLE'S ARMY ( YPA )
The highest ranking YPA officers thought that ten or so tanks on Slovenian roads would be enough to reduce Slovenia to obedience .
Events during the War for Slovenian Independence proved them wrong .
The last parade was held in 1985 .
According to the Constitution , the YPA was an armed force common to all Yugoslav nations and nationalities .
Its basic mission was , along with the territorial defense forces , to stop an aggressor in a potential attack on Yugoslavia .
The YPA was the strongest military force in the Balkans and the largest state institution . As such , it was also very costly .
After the death of its Commander-in-Chief Tito , the YPA declared itself the backbone of the political system .
It had an important influence on events in Yugoslavia .
An important fact is that until 4 October 1990 the 5th Military District was in charge of commanding the Republic of Slovenia's Territorial Defense .
Regardless of legislation , the YPA was single minded . After the disintegration of the ZKJ ( Yugoslav Communist Party ) , its political power was enhanced with the establishment of the Communist Party - a Movement for Yugoslavia .
In terms of nationality , most YPA servicemembers were Serbs , and only 2.8 % were Slovenes .
THE TERRITORIAL DEFENSE ( TD ) OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Lieutenant Colonel Albin Gutman , Commander of the Dolenjska TD 2nd Regional TD HQ
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Zupan , Commander of the Gorenjska TD 3rd Regional TD HQ
Lieutenant Colonel Franc Anderlič , Commander of the Južnoprimorska TD ( 4th Regional TD HQ ) through 30 June 1991
Lieutenant Colonel Miha Butara , Commander of the Ljubljana Regional TD ( 5th Regional TD HQ ) through 30 June 1991
Lieutenant Colonel Bogdan Beltram , Commander of the Severnoprimorska Regional TD ( 6th Regional TD HQ )
Major Viktor Krajnc , M.Sc . , Commander of the Zahodnoštajerska Regional TD ( 8th Regional TD HQ )
Sign { symbol ?} of the Republic of Slovenia TD
In ambush
When declaring independence , some 20,000 of the TD wartime troops were called up into TD units .
* 39,000 infantry weapons ,
* 17,000,000 rounds of ammunition for infantry weapons ,
* 1,100 anti-armor weapons , and
The TD concept was established on 20 November 1968 in all of the former Yugoslav republics .
It was designed to be a special military organization with no standing troops , military posts or armament . The level of equipment could not be compared to that of the YPA .
TD units were manned by reservists and commanded by reserve officers .
The most important positions in the Republic TD HQ were occupied by YPA officers , with minor representation in regional and municipal HQs .
The 1990 multi-party elections in Slovenia also influenced the TD by triggering several political changes .
Given the amendments to the legislative basis , the entire TD-related authority was taken over by the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia .
On 28 September 1990 , Major Janez Slapar was appointed to the position of Acting Commander of the Republic TD HQ.
This was followed by the nomination of new commanders for the regional TD HQs .
In June 1991 , the TD was under the guidance of the Republic TD HQ. Seven regional and 26 district TD HQs were set up .
The special forces brigade , MORiS , and two training centers were also established .
THE POLICE FORCE STRUGGLE FOR AN INDEPENDENT SLOVENIA
The authorities responsible for the Republic of Slovenia's internal policies were divided into 13 regional internal affairs offices .
Dr. Miha Brejc
Slovenian police got a new insignia
Pavle Čelik , M.Sc . Commander of the Slovenian Police
Milan Domadenik , Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs
Dr. Darko Maver , Director of the Crime Prevention Administration
The star on the police helmet was replaced with the new symbol of the Slovenian police forces .
At the outbreak of the armed conflict in Slovenia , the police forces were well prepared .
All active and reserve police officers were called up .
Their defense preparations had been carried out long before , and their experience gained in the " Gathering of Truth " on 1 December 1989 was extremely valuable .
During the attack on Slovenia , the police and TD forces fought side by side against the YPA .
The result of this joint effort was the capture of a considerable number of YPA soldiers .
The Criminal Investigation Service focused its operations mainly on the collection of documents on criminal acts committed by YPA soldiers . The service also conducted interviews with prisoners , cooperated with the police in inspecting some facilities and premises , and accomplished a number of other tasks .
The Security and Information Service was actively involved in the suppression of YPA counter-intelligence service operations and collected a lot of information on enemy activities and their objectives at home and abroad .
One of the merits of the joint services was also the provision of full logistic support .
The War for Slovenian Independence involved 7,100 police officers , among them 4,500 professional and 4,900 reserve police officers .
CIVIL PROTECTION ( CP ) OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Two firefighters testing gas masks
Novo mesto
Road blockade
A group of inhabitants of Kranj in front of a shelter
The setting up of roadblocks
Nova Gorica
During one of their operations , they had to put out fires on tanks after an armed conflict in Rožna Dolina .
The CP and other organizations in the existing protection system played an important role during and after the War for Slovenian Independence .
CP units carried out preparations similar to those in the defense and other areas before the actual declaration of independence in order to be ready for any potential escalation in the situation .
Right after receiving the information that YPA tanks had left the military post , the Republic CP HQ ( RCPHQ ) initiated its operations on Župančičeva Street in Ljubljana ; its operations proceeded without interruption until the end of the war .
The RCPHQ immediately established contacts with the municipal and Primorska CP HQ , introduced day and night duty in all CP HQs and issued an order for the call-up of municipal specialized units which then operated until the end of the war .
They carried out measures which had been established in case of immediate danger , such as the arrangement of shelters and protection trenches , fire protection measures , NBC protection activities and the like .
The population received daily information through radio and television broadcasts on the necessary measures to be taken in case of air raids , how to build shelters , the use of protective masks , the hermetic sealing of their homes and stalls , the protection of wells , and the stockpiling of necessary reserves of food and drink .
The majority of tasks associated with immediate protective measures , notably in the area of armed conflict , were accomplished by firefighters and emergency medical services .
Special measures were initiated by the RCPHQ during the air raid in Kočevsko and the bombing threats to the oil derivatives storage site in Mokronog .
All of the actions by the CP and other forces were , as in other areas , derived from the guidelines and the group responsible for defense coordination .
In 1991 , TD forces still lacked some of the required assets and decided to make use of CP stocks , in particular generators with the capacity of 1 and 2 kW , beds , blankets , sleeping bags and other accessories .
The war situation at the CPRHQ ended with the departure of the last YPA soldier from Slovenia . This , however , did not mean the termination of activities for CP personnel .
CP and TD EOD personnel managed to clear 1,500 hectares with some 800 anti-personnel mines being discovered or destroyed ; this was a highly demanding and dangerous task and one which required much responsibility .
In terms of the organization , facilities , and personnel and technical assets , the reception , accommodation and provision of supplies to the refugees from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina which followed the escalation of war operations in the former Yugoslavia was an even more complex mission than that of demining .
By August 1992 , when the RS government established the Refugee Office , the CP had managed to receive , accommodate and provide supplies for more than 80,000 people from the former Yugoslavia with the help of the Slovenian Red Cross and other authorities .
ON THE FIRST DAY OF THE WAR ( THURSDAY , 27 JUNE 1991 )
A convoy of YPA vehicles consisting of 12 BOV3 armored personnel vehicles , 6 trucks and 3 all - terrain vehicles drove through Metlika at 1 : 15 a.m.
The final destination of the convoy was not known .
A decision was made to set up a roadblock at Poganci on the outskirts of Novo Mesto .
At 3 a.m. Major Boško Prodanovič , the YPA unit commander , ordered the removal of the roadblock and backed up his decision by firing a few shots from a machine gun .
A TD member responded to the fire and wounded an officer in the convoy .
This is regarded as the first shooting incident in the War for Slovenian Independence .
As evening approached , members of a special operations detachment left two YPA helicopters to assist the armored vehicle crews .
Shooting broke out and lasted around 20 minutes .
Four YPA soldiers and one TD member lost their lives .
The convoy moving towards Šentilj was stopped by a barricade at Pesnica .
The tank column was attacked by TD members at around 5 : 30 p.m.
An order issued by the commander of the 5th military district a few hours after the commencement of the YPA aggression in Slovenia
At daybreak of the first day following the declaration of Slovenia's independence , the YPA started its armed aggression on the newly declared state .
A convoy of armored vehicles moved from Croatia to Novo mesto and Ljubljana , and tanks from Vrhnika set off towards the Brnik Airport in two columns .
The order issued to command personnel required the use of all combat operation rules and these were eventually applied .
Federal police officers were deployed to border crossings .
It seemed as if nothing else could have stopped the tanks ' progression .
The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia convened and , as the Supreme Commanding Authority , decided to respond to the YPA aggression with force .
A YPA armored convoy tried to move past Novo mesto towards Ljubljana to reach its final destination at the Brnik Airport .
It stopped on the Medvedjek slope near Trebnje where the Dolenjska TD forces had laid an ambush .
Negotiations between the TD and the YPA started ; however , there was no real success .
The situation was additionally complicated with civilian vehicles stuck on both sides of the blockade .
Ormož , consequences of conflict
Units from the Ljutomer District TD HQ set up obstacles on the bridge in order to prevent the further progress of the tanks .
At the extended session of the Republic of Slovenia's Presidency , President Milan Kučan addressed the public :
The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered the Slovenian TD forces to use weapons , if necessary , to protect facilities and communications assets vital for people's lives in the Republic of Slovenia and for the protection of its sovereignty . "
The Republic of Slovenia's Presidency urged all Slovenes in the YPA to refuse to participate in aggression against their own nation .
During the first days of the war , YPA planes dropped leaflets on some towns , the contents of which were similar to the leaflets scattered by German aircraft during World War II.
Gornja Radgona
At four minutes to five o'clock in the morning , some thirty tanks set off from Veržej , making their way through Križevci towards Radenci .
There they made a sudden move towards Gornja Radgona .
At 10 : 50 a.m. they found themselves in front of the town which looked as if it had been deserted .
Shortly before eleven , they proceeded towards the border . One of the tanks ran into a house in the city center and pulled it down .
Four young people from Radgona crawled close to the column and threw Molotov cocktails at the military trucks .
The tanks rolled on . Just before half past three , the Radgona border crossing was leveled to the ground .
Brnik after a devastating air attack
Major General Konrad Kolšek announced that the YPA would also use air strikes ;
this eventually happened at half past ten . Two planes attacked the Brnik Airport firing several bursts at hangars and parked cars .
As a result of the attack , an Airbus 320 belonging to the Slovenian airline company and some twenty vehicles were damaged with eight vehicles being totally destroyed by fire .
In the morning at approximately ten o'clock , the TD attacked a column of armored vehicles after a series of unsuccessful negotiations .
Shooting was violent with the YPA also using anti-aircraft guns .
Around noon , YPA aircraft carried out an attack and TD positions were fired on with missiles from four MIGs and three " jastreb " assault aircraft .
In the village of Veliki Gaber , planes strafed and burned down the Kotar family's house and farm buildings ; the owner , Anton , was killed by machinegun fire .
The Slovenian Armed Forces reinforced blockades and mobilized new units to protect border crossings .
" Carry out offensive activities against the occupying units and their facilities at all points where our units have a tactical advantage .
Make sure that the civilian population is evacuated and protected . "
They were fully armed and supported by 5 tanks .
Despite the unfavorable ratio for the TD , a decision was made to attack the border crossing with territorial and police forces .
Major Srečko Lisjak was appointed the commanding officer of this operation .
As evening approached , YPA troops were asked to surrender , but YPA soldiers eventually assumed their positions and the tank crews started the tanks ' engines .
One T-55 tank was destroyed by the first shots alone , and one more caught fire later on .
YPA soldiers realized very soon the helplessness of the situation and surrendered .
The liberation of the border crossing at Rožna Dolina had a significant effect on the further development of events in the Primorska region .
YPA soldiers attempted to attack the border crossing which was guarded by police forces as early as the evening of 27 June but without success .
The decisive clash for Holmec started on 28 June sometime after 5 a.m. and was finished by 10 : 50 a.m.
The first shot came from the YPA sentry box on the border ; this was then followed by the response from the TD and police forces .
After this violent conflict , the YPA soldiers surrendered .
The victory won at Holmec was a joint effort by police and TD forces .
Combat colors confiscated in Borovnica
The recce platoon of the MORiS special forces brigade occupied a large YPA military depot in Borovnica near Ljubljana .
During the next few days , the items were quickly disseminated in fear of an air raid .
The agreed to cease-fire was not respected .
DAY THREE ( SATURDAY , 29 JUNE 1991 )
Solkan
Upon arrival at the national border with Italy , the TD used the remaining parts of a YPA armored unit to form the first TD armor unit , officially called TONI-55 . ( The YPA armored unit had split into two group ; one had occupied the Rožna Dolina border crossing and the other the border crossing at Vrtojba . ) .
Brod na Kolpi
During the War for Slovenian Independence , border control was increasingly important .
At several locations , police forces were supported by TD forces .
The implementation of stricter traffic regulation measures
They reached an agreement on ceasing hostilities which was , however , never implemented .
The following issues were discussed during these talks :
* a cease-fire and YPA withdrawal from military posts ,
* a 3-month postponement in the implementation of Slovenian independence , and
* the election of Stipe Mesič as the Croatian representative for the Chairman of the SFRY Presidency .
There was no question of postponing the implementation of Slovenian independence ; in fact , there was no way to go back .
It became clear that Slovenes were not willing and were not in a position to give up their independence .
DAY FOUR ( SUNDAY , 30 JUNE 1991 )
In all major Slovenian towns , leaflets and posters were distributed demanding that the YPA leave Slovenian territory .
The YPA was an occupation army .
Murska Sobota
The Slovenian Red Cross provided continued care for prisoners and YPA deserters .
They supplied civilian clothing and , in cooperation with the Yugoslavian Red Cross , made arrangements for the return of YPA soldiers to their homes .
Sniper on stand-by
In spite of three days of fighting , barricades on roads and closed borders , the people of Slovenia did not realize until the last Sunday in June that the nation was at war .
At nine o'clock , there were air-raid sirens all over Slovenia .
People retreated en masse to shelters .
The number of volunteers joining the TD forces was rising , and there was an increasing number of soldiers and officers deserting the YPA .
The establishment of new forces from the Varaždin , Zagreb and Reka corps was in process ; their mission was to conduct an attack on Slovenia .
DAY FIVE ( MONDAY , 1 JULY 1991 )
The firing from a machinegun of a helicopter bearing the sign of the Red Cross was directed towards Maistrova Street in Celje .
Črni Vrh nad Idrijo
Just after 1 a.m. a fire broke out in the weapons , ammunition and EOD depot . Several violent explosions followed later on .
An 18-meter long and 6-meter deep crater formed at the location of the depot and some 80 percent of nearby houses were damaged .
Bistrica pri Naklem
Rest
The leading YPA commands from Belgrade kept sending messages with threats and lies directed against Slovenia and its people .
In their messages , they kept repeating that the YPA was at the highest level of combat readiness , that units were supplied with basic supplies , that some personnel measures had been introduced to improve the efficiency of YPA operations , and the like .
The situation in Slovenia grew in intensity .
The number of YPA members surrendering and deserting to the TD was rising .
In the evening of the same day , Slovenia received a new ultimatum .
DAY SIX ( TUESDAY , 2 JULY 1991 )
They attacked the transmitters on Nanos , Krvavec , Kum , and Boč .
For several hours , soldiers were firing from the Maribor military post towards Pohorje in an attempt to destroy the RTV Slovenia transmitter but without success .
Krakovski gozd
In the morning , TD units attacked a column of armored vehicles in the woods " Krakovski gozd " .
From the direction of Jastrebarsko , they were backed up by the column , while YPA aircraft were engaged by TD forces lying in ambush .
Within a few hours , TD forces destroyed the column of YPA armored vehicles .
Finding themselves in a hopeless situation , the YPA soldiers left their armored vehicles and were captured the following day .
A destroyed tank at Prilipe
From the direction of Jastrebarsko , a column of 20 tanks set off in order to unblock the column located at the Krakovski gozd .
German Foreign Minister Genscher intended to visit Ljubljana .
The entire Yugoslav air space was closed . There were additional warnings from Belgrade about the tank columns presumably approaching the Slovenian capital , and the meeting was , therefore , held in the Austrian Villach .
The situation in Slovenia worsened .
YPA bombings and missile attacks were selectively directed at the major television and radio transmitters .
FIGHTING FOR SENTRY BOXES
The consequences of air raids on the Kum transmitter
The TD crew safeguarding the transmitter was taken by surprise .
Eight members of TD units were wounded by particles scattered after the explosion of the shells .
The transmitter was heavily damaged .
This time , the air defense protection was prepared .
The aircraft did not crash , but the pilot was forced to eject .
Members of the police and TD forces are getting ready to escort the convoy from Dravograd .
Presika
An incapacitated tank remained at the scene of attack .
A new YPA column attempted to force its way across the hill of Kog .
A group of three volunteers lay in ambush at the house of the Šterman family .
They fired at the tank from there , hit it and destroyed it .
The crew left the tank , hid a few days in the nearby woods and then surrendered .
Škofije , 3 July , 9 p.m.
With the withdrawal of the YPA , the border crossing is again in Slovenian hands .
A ceasefire was agreed to but not taken seriously by the Yugoslav generals .
Two columns of tanks were sent from Croatia to Slovenia .
Information was received from Rome that the Italian Army had deployed a few dozen tanks along its border with Slovenia .
DAY EIGHT ( THURSDAY , 4 JULY 1991 )
Golte , the " gazelle " helicopter with the TO 001 marking
They left the post in Maribor at 10 : 30 a.m. on 28 June .
First , they landed on Rogla and then proceeded in the direction of Golte on 9 July , but for security reasons they had to move to Smrekovec .
Despite searching for them , the Yugoslav Army never found the " Gazelle " .
Even during times of war , the children found a place to play amid the sand bags rearranged as shelters .
Federal police officers accomplished a notable " exploit " at the Fernetiči border crossing .
One of their " successful " actions was also the plunder of the Kompas duty-free shop .
In cooperation with the TD , police forces increased their control of traffic in all of Slovenia and notably in the major cities .
During the talks between the Slovenian and Yugoslav delegations held in Zagreb , the Slovenian side sought to cease hostilities , enforce the separation of YPA troops , unblock TD forces , and resolve the issue of prisoners of war and the regime on Slovenian borders .
Following lengthy negotiations , establishing compliance with the ceasefire rules and the mutual exchange of information on any incidents were agreed to .
Ljubljana hosted the visit by the European Union observers .
The parents of the young men doing their YPA service in Slovenia arrived in Ljubljana to meet their sons .
The withdrawal of the Yugoslav Army to the military posts , which took the entire day , left nothing behind but destruction .
Border crossings were demolished , several roads were damaged by tanks , and houses were pulled down .
At the beginning of the War for Slovenian Independence , there were some unresolved issues which had not been anticipated before or at least not to such an extent .
Map of POW concentration camps
Bogojina , YPA prisoners of war
Prisoners of war in Slovenia were under the control of the Criminal Investigation Service which also collaborated with the police forces and the Red Cross .
The records of the Slovenian Red Cross reveal that , up to 7 July , 2,405 YPA members , 131 federal police officers and three civilians were captured .
The YPA was reluctant to give any official assurances .
A decision was reached to assign a group of professionals to Yugoslavia to assist in negotiations on the peaceful resolution of the crisis .
The Chief of the YPA General Staff , Blagoje Ađić , addressed 150 senior YPA officers in Belgrade with a lot of self-confidence saying that " the YPA is involved in a war which has been imposed on it by the secessionists in Slovenia and Croatia " and that " conditions are very dramatic and worse than in 1941 . "
He accused Marković and the Federal Executive Council of having secret talks with the West and the USA about the division of Yugoslavia and claimed that the units mobilized in Serbia were highly motivated and prepared for anything .
DAY TEN ( SATURDAY , 6 JULY 1991 )
The table shows the number of TD members from all over Slovenia who responded to the call-up .
The response by TD members who were called up was around 90 percent .
A large number of volunteers also reported and were mainly posted to units due to the shortage of weapons .
The Kočevje CP inspecting the remains of cluster bombs
The YPA bombed the area of the Kočevska Reka two times , on 28 June and 3 July .
During the first air raid , they also dropped cluster bombs .
The damage was not significant , but there was a great risk of accidents caused by the potential explosion of the unexploded bombs .
Sabotin by Nova Gorica
The Slovenian flag was flown in many places all over the newly established state of Slovenia .
There were some 3,000 young men from Slovenia in the YPA , and their status caused a lot of concern .
In the morning , an expanded session of the RS Presidency , including members of the Federal Presidency Dr. Vasil Tupurkovski and Bogić Bogićević , took place in Ljubljana .
The session was not about negotiations , but rather about clarification of the ultimatum issued by the SFRY Presidency .
He was , nevertheless , much more relaxed than the Chief of the General Staff , Blagoje Ađić , had been the day before .
THE BRIJUNI DECLARATION
( SUNDAY , 7 JULY 1991 )
The Slovenian delegation at the negotiations on the Brijuni islands
Members of the delegation ( from left ) : Foreign Minister Dr. Dimitrij Rupel ; Chairman of the Parliament , Dr. France Bučar ; Prime Minister Alojz Peterle ; Chairman of the Republic of Slovenia Presidency , Milan Kučan ; and Dr. Janez Drnovšek .
Škofja Loka
Graffiti on a city wall appealing to members of the Slovenian defense forces to keep on defending the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia .
If we think of the general tension , the day was relatively peaceful .
There were separate negotiations with the delegations from Slovenia , Croatia and the Federation .
After 15 hours of negotiations , a joint declaration , called the Brijuni Declaration , was adopted .
SOME HIGHLIGHTS OF THE BRIJUNI DECLARATION :
- the collective SFRY presidency shall establish full authority and assume its political and constitutional roles .
A MAP OF COMBAT OPERATIONS
THE WAR IS OVER
Data which was collected by the Slovenian Red Cross up to 7 July :
* captured YPA members 2,405
* captured civilians 3
* wounded YPA members 163
* wounded TD members 89
* wounded police officers 22
* police force casualties 4
* civilian casualties 5
foreign citizen casualties 10
The war is over . It is time for joy .
The war is finished . A soldier at the Ajševica military post ponders his future destiny .
Pivka , September , at the railway station
Observing the trains loaded with military equipment , people could not get over their surprise at seeing the quantities of military weapons concentrated in individual towns .
The YPA left military posts in extremely poor conditions .
This was also the YPA .
During their stay in Slovenia , many officers openly showed their preferences and true character .
They did not stop any of this even when they were leaving the Port of Koper to join the evolving war in Croatia and Bosnia .
On 18 June 1991 , the SFRY presidency reached a decision on withdrawing YPA troops from Slovenian territory .
Preparations for the withdrawal were initiated immediately as the concentration of military equipment , assets and weapons was large and the withdrawal was to be completed within three months .
The YPA withdrawal from Slovenia was carried out in various directions , mostly by rail .
The last YPA convoys left by sea from the Port of Koper .
Although an agreement was signed for the peaceful withdrawal of the YPA from Slovenia , TD and police forces were prepared to respond to any provocations or incidents .
The last ship with YPA troops onboard left the Port of Koper on 26 October a few minutes after midnight .
" This was a farewell without tears , " was the sentence most frequently heard during those days .
War for Slovenia 1991
ANNUAL REPORT of the Ministry of Defence for 2004
Ljubljana , 2005
ISSN 1617-6958
Republic of Slovenia
Ministry of Defence
Secretariat of Secretary General of MoD Publishing service
Littera picta
CONTENTS
1 KEY RESULTS IN 2004 .................................................................................
1.1 Slovenia becomes NATO and EU member .....................................
1.4 NATO and EU document management principles ..........................
1.5 Better earthquake preparedness of the system of protection against natural and other disasters .................................................
2 PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004 ..........................................................................................
2.1 Defence policy and defence planning ..........................................
2.2 Normative acts ..............................................................................
2.3 Military Defence ..........................................................................
2.3.2 Improved SAF capabilities ..................................................
2.3.3 SAF professionalisation and manning with contract reserves ..............................................................................
2.3.4 Education and training in SAF ............................................
2.3.5 Cooperation with civil organisations important for defence ...............................................................................
2.4 International operations ................................................................
2.5 Civil Defence and crisis management ..........................................
2.8 Inspections in the area of protection against natural and other disasters .......................................................................................
2.9 Internal auditing service ...............................................................
2.10 Intelligence and security activities ............................................
2.12 Research and development ........................................................
3 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD .....................................
3.1 Human resource management .....................................................
3.1.1 Personnel plan of the MOD and its constituent bodies ......
3.1.2 Structure of MOD personnel ..............................................
3.1.3 Education , training and supplementary education for MOD personnel ..................................................................
3.2 Management of financial resources ............................................
3.3.1 Upgrading the communications infrastructure ..................
3.4 Equipping and modernisation ......................................................
3.5 Information support .....................................................................
4.3 Bilateral cooperation ...................................................................
4.4 Multilateral cooperation ..............................................................
4.5 Defence diplomacy ......................................................................
INTRODUCTION
The following annual report of the Ministry of Defence ( MOD ) presents information on the work of the Ministry throughout 2004 and is targeted at both the internal and external public .
It is focused on the success related to the attainment of specifically set goals . At the same time , it is also a progress report for 2004 .
In 2004 , Slovenia became a NATO and EU member , which presents new tasks and challenges to the Slovenian Armed Forces ( SAF ) and the defence system as a whole .
In response to this new situation , we continued the process of SAF transformation and professionalisation and improved its capabilities .
Throughout 2004 , activities related to the reform of the SAF continued successfully .
Individual projects as par t of the overall PROVOJ project ( professional ar my supplemented with the contract reserves ) were conducted with medium success , and brought about new challenges and opportunities for improvement .
The National Crisis Management Centre ( NCMC ) began operating for civil defence purposes .
By participating in NATO and EU crisis management exercises , we acquired invaluable experience and tested our crisis response capabilities .
Many activities within the system of protection and rescue were dedicated to the drafting of acts regulating the functioning of the system , and also to the preparation of proposals for the removal of consequences of natural and other disasters . There are improvements planned for more effective prevention .
Much was accomplished last year . However , not all of the objectives set in specific areas were fully completed , leaving us with new professional challenges .
1.1 Slovenia becomes NATO and EU member
In March 2004 , after a 10-year period of focused effort beginning with the accession to the Partnership for Peace ( PfP ) programme , Slovenia and six other countries officially became members of NATO . Two months later , Slovenia also joined the European Union .
The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be proud of these accomplishments since there are not many countries that have achieved what Slovenia has done in its 13 years of independence .
Membership of both organisations had been a national strategic goal for several years .
We intend not only to maintain but also accelerate the current pace of complying with the different security , defence and military standards that apply in both organisations .
1.2 Formation and development of deployable SAF forces
In 2004 , we started monitoring certain indicators of the MoD's work that track our progress related to the achievement of goals set in strategic documents .
The " Resolution on the General Long-term Plan for the Development and Equipping of the SAF up to 2015 " stipulates that 40 % of SAF overall land force strength should be usable for deployed operations .
We have also made a commitment to NATO that 8 % of the overall land force strength will be either engaged in or earmarked for crisis response operations at any one time .
The analysis of results at the end of 2004 showed that 9.5 % of deployable land forces are usable for participating in operations led by NATO or under other international auspices .
Usable forces are those forces which are structured , prepared , equipped and trained for deployed operations outside Slovenia and have all capabilities available necessary for their deployment .
In 2004 , 4 % of the land forces were engaged in or were earmarked for deployed operations .
1.3 Stabilisation of SAF structure
On 31 December 2004 , we finished an extensive transformation of the SAF structure .
The General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces ( GSSAF ) is the highest strategic command . Subordinate to the General Staff are the Force Command of the Slovenian Armed Forces ( FCSAF ) , established in 2003 , which is responsible for operational command of forces , and the newly established Doctrine , Development , Education and Training Command ( DDETC ) .
The 72nd Brigade has combat support and combat service support capabilities .
Part of its units , i.e. the 18th NBC Defence Battalion , has been assigned to the NATO Response Force .
DDETC comprises all military schools , the Doctrine and Development Centre , the Training Centre , the Library and Information Centre and the Military Museum .
In the future , the SAF will be further manned , trained and equipped .
1.4 NATO and EU document management principles
The NATO Central Registry operates under the Defence Policy Directorate .
In terms of its organisation it has a threefold role of a NATO Central Registry , a NATO and an EU Sub-Registry in the Ministry of Defence .
The main tasks of the central registry are to receive , enter , distribute and keep records of NATO documents for Slovenia with classified , unclassified and official data .
The MOD NATO Central Registry and Sub-Registry opened their office in 2004 . The EU Sub-Registry will obtain the official permit for operation in 2005 . The management of NATO and EU documents is important for the working process of the Ministry and for the development of the defence system and of the system of protection against natural and other disasters .
By obtaining the permit for the operation of NATO sub-registries at the SAF General Staff , ASOC , MOD Intelligence and Security Service , at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the control point of the National Crisis Management Centre , the NATO registry system was established in Slovenia .
1.5 Better earthquake preparedness of the system of protection against natural and other disasters
The Government of the Republic of Slovenia declared 2004 a year of earthquake preparedness .
The Municipality of Ljubljana , nine neighbouring municipalities , and all responsible Ministries and government agencies participated in the theoretical part of this exercise , which was based on the assumption that Ljubljana and its surroundings were affected by a devastating earthquake .
2 PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
2.1 Defence policy and defence planning
Given the end of conscription and the process of integration into NATO and the EU , a Strategic Defence Review ( SDR ) was conducted by the Ministry of Defence in 2002 and in 2003 .
This process served as the basis for a document that was adopted by the Government in May 2004 and reiterated the main principles of Slovenian security and defence policy , determined in 2001 .
Notwithstanding , we analysed the Resolution on the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy and identified the shortfalls in their contents and essential amendments to be made .
In accordance with the SDR , Slovenian defence policy is focused on increased integration into the European multilateral security institutions , on the gradual increase of cooperation in international operations and on the harmonisation of defence planning with realistic expectations regarding the resources available .
We followed the events in Slovenia's security environment and developed our positions for the resolution of security issues .
The main focus of our international efforts was and will continue to be South Eastern Europe .
Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence accepted new tasks in the Western Balkans . During the process of integration into NATO it established close ties with other countries .
The MOD presented its views on the future of the Multinational Land Force ( MLF ) according to which Slovenia stated its interest for the MLF to participate in NATO operations . The unit could also be made available for EU participation based on the " single set of forces " principle .
the formation of an EU Battle Group based on the MLF ; deployment to a PSO in 2005 ; and consideration of the possibility of finding a place for the unit in the Alliance . Enlargement of the MLF is not among the priority tasks .
The decision on the formation of an EU Battle Group is a political one , since it promotes multilateral cooperation and the formation of the battle group based on the MLF .
Slovenia and other countries involved in CENCOOP thought that it should continue to function as a political forum without binding obligations .
The OSCE Presidency was identified as one of the Slovenia ’ s main foreign policy priorities up to 2007 .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
In 2004 , we developed a draft of Defence Planning Regulations for the Ministry of Defence and a proposal for the Mid-term Defence Plan for 2005-2010 , the main purpose of which is to gradually implement plans relating to the size , structure and readiness of the SAF , as well as relating to resources and the entire defence system .
NATO member and provided replies based on the NATO Defence Planning Questionnaire ( DPQ ) .
The replies comprised the situation assessment for 2004 , the description of defence policy , the feasibility of goals , and detailed plans for their implementation during
2.2 Normative acts
Also in 2004 , certain normative acts , predominantly defence related normative acts , had to be modified because of the changes made to strategic , development and other documents on national security and in particular defence , the decisions made on the reform of the SAF manning system in the previous years , and the integration of Slovenia into the EU and NATO .
In 2004 , the Law on Defence was changed and amended ( RS Official Gazette , no . 40 / 04 ) to introduce the necessary modifications of the provisions that did not assure a sufficient level of interoperability with other armed forces of NATO members or did not permit a full implementation of commitments deriving from NATO membership .
In addition , we changed some provisions on professional work in the area of defence , with the primary focus on resolving and gradually eliminating personnel discrepancies in the SAF that resulted from the new force structure after the introduction of professional forces complemented by reserves .
In the area of by-laws , there were several government ordinances and regulations adopted in the Ministry's area of responsibility .
The most important were the following :
The Defence Plans Ordinance provides new and comprehensive regulations related to Host Nation Support , crisis management and civil crisis planning .
It simplified the drafting of defence plans and provided a clearer definition of tasks for the main actors .
In order to implement the changes made to the Law on Military Duty that terminated some of the peacetime military duty elements in 2003 , and to implement the Defence Plans Ordinance we also had to amend the Citizen Assignment Ordinance .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
The key change was the demarcation of responsibilities related to mutual communication between the authority requesting an assignment on a duty and the administrative authority responsible for defence affairs .
With the Ordinance on Amendments of the Ordinance on Service in the SAF Contract Reserve , an attempt was made to remedy some of the shortfalls identified during the practical implementation of the reserve military service .
Through this ordinance contract reserves may be called in to perform their peacetime tasks seven months a year instead of the previous three months .
As a result of the changed tax legislation , certain arrangements on the pay of contract reserves had to be adjusted accordingly . To a certain extent , this also improved the status of the employers of contract reserves .
The Ordinance on the Implementation of Airspace Surveillance determined more detailed tasks and procedures of civil and military authorities and services associated with airspace surveillance , mutual exchange of information , and measures taken in the event of violation of airspace .
Based on this ordinance , certain air surveillance tasks can be performed in cooperation with allied military systems , services and aircraft in accordance with joint plans and international agreements .
2.3.1 Transformation of SAF structure
In 2004 , we established a new SAF structure that made our forces better prepared , more professional and comparable with other armed forces and helped us join the Alliance .
With the new organisation , all important conditions were met for the future development and formation of the SAF in accordance with the defence system development goals up to 2015 and for the fulfilment of the collective defence tasks which Slovenia is committed to within NATO and the EU.
In the future , the transformation of the SAF will be mainly oriented towards the development of a professional force interoperable with other forces of the Alliance in terms of its structure , level of equipment and training , and towards further downsizing of the compulsory reserve .
In 2004 , we discharged the Command of the 52nd Brigade , the 12th Guard Battalion , commands of three infantry training battalions , logistical units at the military posts in Ptuj , Logatec , Ilirska Bistrica , Velike Bloke , and on 26th October in Vrhnika , as well as reserve units of the 52nd and 72nd brigades .
We formed a logistical battalion under the SAF FC and an HQ logistical battalion under the 1st Brigade .
With the transformation of logistical bases and of the Technical Institute and with the reassignment of the Air Base and of the Military Medical Service , we established a new structure of the Support Command .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
The 15th Air Force Brigade was transformed into the 15th Helicopter Battalion , the Air Base and the Flight School ; the 9th Air Defence Brigade was transformed into the Air Defence Battalion and the 76th anti-tank battalion was transformed into the anti-tank company .
The 460th and the 760th artillery battalions were reorganised into the 460th Artillery Battalion .
In addition , we transformed the 18th NBC Defence Battalion , the 14th Engineer Battalion , the Training Centre , military dispensaries and logistical units in military posts .
We changed the structure of the 72nd Brigade by reattaching the 18th NBC Defence Battalion , the 45th Armoured Mechanised Battalion , the 14th Engineer Battalion , the 132nd Mountain Battalion and the 460th Artillery Battalion .
The new structure comprises the GSSAF , responsible for commanding at the strategic level and for the planning and development tasks , the FCSAF , responsible for commanding SAF units and institutions at the operational level , and the DDETC .
This Command integrates education and training and the development of military science .
It creates conditions for the achievement of one of the development goals , which is the setting up of a comprehensive system of military education and training .
Through acquiring equipment in 2004 we enhanced SAF capabilities , especially in terms of mobility , individual equipment , combat support of forces , C2 support capabilities , logistical support and theatre survivability .
The 20th Motorised Battalion took over 23 new light Valuk armour vehicles .
We provided the equipment for the deployment of our unit to the ISAF peace support operation in Afghanist an , and special equipment and vehicles for the light decontamination platoon earmarked for the NATO Response Forces ( NRF ) .
The acquisition of new assets and equipment , such as communication vehicles , terrain vehicles , NBC protection assets , various engineering vehicles , machinery and kits and the reassignment of existing resources between units and from discharged units enhanced the overall unit combat power and transport capabilities .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
We received three modified inflatable tents for the ROLE 1 unit , which we delivered to the 10th and the 20th Motorised Battalion and to the 670th HQ logistical Battalion .
By introducing these tents , the medical units were given proper conditions for field operations .
The introduction of Cougar helicopters into operational use enhanced our airlift capabilities .
We finished the upgrading of the PC-9 aircraft and of the ASOC centre for airspace surveillance .
After joining NATO , we introduced normative , organisational and other arrangements necessary for the operation of the airspace surveillance system that relies partly on the Alliance's interceptors and for the integration into the NATO integrated air defence system .
This significantly enhanced the security of the Slovenian airspace .
We improved the level of equipment and training , and , in turn , the preparedness of forces for protection , rescue and relief tasks in the event of natural and other disasters .
In the area of communication and information systems ( CIS ) , we introduced the tactical telecommunication system , the C2 tactical and information system and hand-held radios .
We upgraded the intercom links , the IT support of the warehouse management , frequency planning and computer assisted staff processes .
In the context of NATO integration , we set up the NATO secret network and integrated the private telephone network of the Ministry of Defence with the appropriate NATO network .
Included in CIS were the military post in Vipava and the military missions in Brussels and in Mons .
SAF storage sites were also integrated in the wide area static data network .
The integration of the private MOD and SAF telephone network into the NATO communication system permitted direct communication between units and commands and NATO structures .
The NATO secret network allows direct exchange of data messages with NATO .
The amended Law on Defence prescribed new tasks and authorities relating to combating terrorism and other peace threats .
New tasks serve as a basis for the future work of the Intelligence and Security Battalion , the Electronic Warfare Centre , and the Military Police Battalion .
Measures for the protection of classified data were introduced to SAF units and assured compliance with the applicable security standards related to the protection and processing of national and NATO and EU classified data .
By the end of 2004 , DDETC prepared a draft of the SAF Military Defence Doctrine . The GSSAF prepared the drafts of the doctrine and methodology of military education and training .
Both documents are ready for debate in wider professional circles .
2.3.3 SAF professionalisation and manning with contract reserves
At the end of the year , the SAF consisted of 15,784 service members , 6,941 of whom were in the active component , 8,283 were compulsory reserves and 560 contract reserves .
In comparison with 2003 , when the SAF had 26,504 service members , the number was reduced by 10,720 service members .
However , the active component had 565 more and the contract reserve component 268 more service members than in 2003 .
In 2004 , the conditions were met for the introduction of the voluntary military service for 227 male and 31 female candidates .
SAF units were intensively manned with contract reserves .
We manned the logistical company of the 132nd Mountain Battalion and the first contract reserves were assigned to the 460th Artillery Battalion .
The original manning plan anticipated the recruitment of 729 contract reserves . We managed to fill 560 slots , or 77 % of the planned duties .
Table 1 :
An overview of manning of SAF units with contract reserves
Planned
Implemented
Difference
132nd Mountain Battalion
18th NBC Defence Battalion
460th Artilery Battalion
9th Air Defence Battalion
Total
The manning plan for 2004 was not fully implemented due to the lack of candidates with appropriate military occupational specialities .
Because of this problem we broadened the criteria for individual military occupational specialities and provided better conditions for successful manning with contract reserves in 2005 . Under the PROVOJ project we completed the subproject of Relations with Employers that established regular communication with employers about the contract reserve .
Although some elements of military duty were eliminated , the Law on Military Duty requires that peacetime military records be kept and that conscripts be listed based on the official register of citizens .
In 2004 , conscripts born in 1986 were entered in military records and familiarised with their military duties in peacetime and in the immediate threat of war .
2.3.4 Education and training in SAF
In accordance with the development of the SAF , integration into NATO and EU and the adoption of NATO doctrines and standards , we modified part of the NCO and officers ' training programmes and introduced training programmes for new duties in SAF , such as unit NCOs and a special category of military personnel ? civilian specialists in uniform ( CSU ) .
Furthermore , we continued activities for the recognition of military diplomas outside the military .
303 SAF service members attended education and training courses abroad , 61 % of whom were officers , 36 % non-commissioned officers , 1 % soldiers and 2 % CSU .
99 candidates completed courses that lasted over one month .
Units and individuals participated in different NATO exercises and exercises on the basis of bilateral cooperation with other armed forces , gaining invaluable experiences for fighting with other armed forces .
During this exercise we verified the level of our training and trained for operations in accordance with the NATO doctrine .
Contingents to be deployed to missions abroad were given regular pre-deployment training .
2.3.5 Cooperation with civil organisations important for defence
Because of the obligatory military service and the obligatory reserve service , there had been regular and close contacts between the civilian and military spheres .
The professional force with contract reserves does not have the same possibilities to establish these ties .
Therefore , new forms of civil-military cooperation were introduced to maintain contacts with the civilian public .
Our primar y focus was oriented towards improving the SAF public reputation , familiarisation with job opportunities in the SAF and service in the contract reserve as well as towards supporting the activities and projects of civil organisations and associations , closely related to the SAF .
This cooperation was based on reciprocity of interests and benefits .
Cooperation with civil organisations that is gradually becoming the main link with the public was important in improving the public image and visibility of the SAF in broader society .
Also in the future , civil-military cooperation will be based on principles of consensus , continuity , transparency , har monisation , equality , and credibility of cooperating partners .
Allowing for characteristics of civil organisations and associations the SAF put in place successful mechanisms for their involvement in regular activities and tasks of units and commands at different levels .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
The first SAF unit of 21 soldiers was deployed to a peacekeeping mission abroad in 1997
Today , there are over 10 times as many troops participating in operations outside Slovenia .
At the end of 2004 , the SAF were participating in international operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina , Kosovo , Afghanistan , and in the Middle East .
In 2004 , 427 service members were deployed to international operations , 17 % more than in 2003 , when we had 364 troops deployed abroad .
The costs of SAF participation in NATO international oper ations in 2004 amounted to SIT 1,279,802,830.00 in comparison to SIT 971,701,000.00 in 2003 .
The costs of SAF participation in non-NATO operations in 2004 amounted to SIT 27,270,430.00 in comparison to SIT 26,225,000.00 in 2003 .
UN operations
The SAF have been deployed to the United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation ( UNTSO ) in the Middle East since August 1998 . Currently , there are two service members deployed to this mission .
There are two SAF service members on the HQ staff .
The SAF participation in KFOR started in 2000. In October 2003 , a group of additional officers and non-commissioned officers were deployed to Kosovo on a 6-month mission as part of the joint Italian-Hungarian-Slovenian contingent within the Multinational Brigade Southwest .
The reconnaissance squad was part of the Canadian reconnaissance company and there were two SAF members in the HQ.
Administrative and logistical support of the SAF service members is provided by the national support element .
After six months , when the first contingent completed its mission , another , similar group deployed .
The contingent was augmented by an additional seven soldier fire fighters , stationed at the Kabul international airport .
In December 2004 , EU took over the Joint Forge ( SFOR ) operation from NATO and named it Althea ( EUFOR ) .
The SAF contribution to EUFOR international forces remained the same as in SFOR , but the motorised company was transferred from Doboj to Tuzla .
Operation / mission title
International force
Middle East
UN
Joint
Forge1
BiH
NATO
KFOR
Kosovo
NATO
Sarajevo2
Kosovo
NATO
ISAF
Afghanistan
NATO
USA3
USA
Althea2
EUFOR
Concordia
EUF
FYROM
EU
OHR Office
BiH
Total number of participants in operations
Notes :
2 Operation started on 2 December 2004
2.5 Civil Defence and crisis management
In 2004 , we continued with the transformation of civil defence into a comprehensive crisis management and civil crisis planning system .
In order for Slovenia to have an efficient crisis management system , comparable with the arrangements in other NATO and EU countries , a government inter-ministerial working group was established in June 2004 .
This group was tasked to conduct an overview of organisation and norms that govern crisis management in individual components of the Slovenian national security system and to relate the results with the existing national systems in some of the NATO and EU members . It was also asked to study the organisation , procedures and development directions of NATO and EU crisis management and to propose starting points for the formation of a comprehensive crisis management system .
In 2004 , we conducted an analysis of the crisis management situation in Slovenia and a comparative analysis of national crisis management systems in other NATO and EU member states .
This centre permits connections and information exchange between the Slovenian Notification Centre , the SAF Command Centre , Operation and Communication Command of the General Police Directorate , national authorities and non-gover nmental organisations involved in the crisis management process .
Under the commitments deriving from Slovenia's NATO and EU membership , the Centre also permits links with these two organisations .
Slovenia participated in the NATO CMX04 crisis management exercise during which we gained very useful experiences relating to the functioning of the NCMC and individual sections of the national security system .
Participation in the EU CME 04 crisis management exercise focused on verifying the readiness of the national security and defence system for crisis management tasks .
During both exercises we verified crisis response capability and the readiness of the main authorities in the national security system to participate in international peace support operations and to respond in the event of asymmetric threats .
Based on the solutions and lessons learned during both exercises some of the national authorities already started establishing appropriate crisis management coordination bodies and including crisis management measures in defence plans .
There were several important tasks accomplished relating to civil-military cooperation and the support of civil defence for the SAF and armed forces of other NATO members .
In order to have an information system for this support , we elaborated starting points and supplemented the project documentation .
Based on the Slovenian Host Nation Support plan , adopted by the Slovenian Government in 2003 , the Ministries , companies , institutions and other organisations designated by the government to be of special importance for defence drafted the documents necessary for the operational provision of the Host Nation Support and included them in defence plans .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
We prepared the Slovenian Host Nation Support Capability Catalogue to assist the NATO strategic planning process . This catalogue will be forwarded to NATO member states in the first quarter of 2005 , which is nine months prior to the deadline .
In addition , we started preparing the national capability catalogue to be used as an operational and tactical aid upon the activation of host nation support mechanisms . In this way , this defence goal will have been fully completed within the set timeframe .
The Concept of Integration of Civilian Experts and Resources into International Operations is in the process of being adopted . It serves as a basis for the provision of civilian functional experts to be integrated into CIMIC functional groups in the area of operations .
Psychological Defence
A proposal for the psychological defence plan was prepared and an inter-ministerial coordination group was established .
Spatial planning
Cartography
We continued developing the cartographic system for defence needs .
This system is interoperable with NATO standards and coordinated with NATO geo-spatial guidelines
( NATO geographic policy ) .
The annual plan for the production of maps was fully completed .
Maps :
? military topographic map : 1 : 25,000 ( VTK 25 ) ? 25 per cent completed
? orthophotomap of the SAF central training site Postojna ( OSVAD Postojna-Poeek ) 1 : 10,000 ? the map has been completed .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
2.6 System of protection against natural and other disasters
2.6.1 Normative acts
2.6.2 Improvements in the area of protection against natural and other disasters
We continued with the pilot project of helicopter rescue operations on roads that will be prolonged to March 2005 and piloted the dispatcher service for urgent medical aid in additional regional notification centres .
We also prepared records of fires and explosions , their causes and consequences , of interventions and continued equipping the maritime rescue service .
We furnished the vessels designated for maritime ecological interventions and procured assets necessary to prevent the spreading of oil spillage at sea .
The equipping project will be finished in 2005 .
We conducted a national Earthquake 2004 exercise in the Ljubljana area .
Slovenian protection and rescue experts and units responded as part of the UN disaster preparedness team and NATO response capabilities .
We carried out disaster management training programmes under the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe and education and training programmes for the participation in other regional initiatives .
There were other activities conducted under the TRP Science for Security and Peace 2004-2010 related to NBC protection , bioterrorism , production of national electronic interactive protection and rescue plans and the study of electromagnetic radiation of radio and telecommunication systems .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
In the period from 2000 to 2004 , our R & D efforts were oriented towards 36 projects financed from the TRP : Slovenia's Competitiveness 2001-2006 and from the Science for Security and Peace 2004-2010 , from the fire fund and the budget of the Slovenian ACPDR .
24 projects were completed and 83.3 % of findings and results are already included in regulations and working processes and accessible for users in the system of protection against natural and other disasters as well as other users on the web site of the Administration .
12 out of 36 above-mentioned projects are in their initial phase .
In 2004 , the Slovenian ACPDR finished the modernisation of the entire public alarm system .
Individual radio access points can now integrate sirens into a unified national system through the Internet and pagers .
We modernised the backbone network of the shared computer network that includes the local computer networks of regional notification centres and of the Slovenian ACPDR , the system of fixed telecommunications and the main backbone framework through the virtual Internet network .
The shared computer network of the Slovenian ACPDR serves as a basis for the development of the unified information and telecommunication system based on the IP protocol .
While we are waiting for the establishment of the national unified professional system of radio communications , TETRA , we are using the ZARE PLUS system for coordination of radio communications in the entire sphere of protection against natural and other disasters .
Two national operational plans were produced and are in the process of being adopted by the government ; the national response plan , in the event of use of classical weapons or weapons of mass destruction for terrorist purposes , and the national response plans , in the event of major wild fires .
Floods , maritime , air and railway accident response plans were modified to be brought in line with new regulations and adopted by the government .
We continued introducing the SEVESO II Directive .
Education and training programmes were primarily oriented towards commanders and members of civil protection headquarters , specific civil protection units and services and professional and voluntary fire fighters .
Different training programmes were attended by 245 civil protection members , 298 participants were involved in protection and rescue system , 30 foreign candidates , 5,324 voluntary and professional fire fighters , 267 dog handlers , 89 divers specialists in different fields , 95 lecturers and other target groups , in total 13,021 candidates .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
For personal and mutual protection purposes we used modern methods and means to inform , educate and train the population , in particular pre-school and school children .
We published the 17th issue of the Ujma magazine .
Within the rapid response training unit programme , we achieved 93 % of the prescribed level of equipment with technical assets .
Twelve candidates attended courses provided by the European disaster relief system .
Since the majority of mountain accidents take place in the summer , we established a 24-hour duty service for mountain rescuers , helicopter crews and medical teams in cooperation with the Mountain Rescue Service at the Slovenian Mountain Association , the Ministry of Health , the General Police Directorate and the SAF .
We purchased the first three special fire engines .
Together with the SAF we organised pre-deployment training and equipped twelve fire fighters for the ISAF operation . Seven were deployed to the peace support mission to the Kabul airport .
The fire fighters are deployed for 6 or 9 month periods .
Together with the Roads Directorate at the Ministry of Transport we purchased and accepted a 40-metre Mabey-Johanson Compact 200 bridge and procured a ROLE 2 dispensary in cooperation with the Slovenian Commodity Reserve Institute .
Bilaterally , the Slovenian ACPDR had intensive cooperation with the neighbouring and other countries , with which Slovenia signed agreements on bilateral cooperation in the area of protection against natural and other disasters .
The text of the agreement on bilateral cooperation with the Republic of Poland was harmonised and initialled and the initiative on signing of such an agreement with the Republic of Italy was again put forward . The activities were initiated for the protocol on cross-border cooperation and assistance with Friuli and Giulia .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
As Slovenia is a full EU member , and because of the requirement to strengthen the civil protection component in the EU after the terrorist attack in Madrid , the work in the Community for Civil Protection Mechanism was very intensive .
Slovenia was an active player in this process at all levels . It also declared forces that would be made available for the EU Mechanism responding to such events .
At the same time , there were activities going on aimed at achieving better preparedness for natural and other disasters .
During courses for unit members who have been entered in the Community Mechanism database , Slovenia trained the majority of personnel intended for joint response . In April , a big group participated in a field exercise on forest fires held in southern France .
Multilateral contacts comprised participation in NATO activities , in particular civil crisis management and crisis management , and in the NATO Intex 2004 and CMX04 exercises .
Slovenia also took part in activities run under the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Activities ( UN OCHA ) . We organised and carried out a UN course on civil-military cooperation during rescue and humanitarian operations .
There were several international courses and seminars conducted within the disaster preparedness education and training project in South Eastern Europe under the auspices of the Stability Pact Disaster Preparedness and Prevention Initiative .
We also participated in the SEDM civil-military emergency planning process ( CMEP ) and in preparations and conduct of the SEESIM 2004 exercise .
Different activities were going on also under the framework of the Adriatic ? Ionian initiative and the regional Euroregio-West Nyugat Pannonia initiative .
The Slovenian Defence Inspectorate conducted inspections on the implementation of regulations and tasks related to defence and internal inspection on the protection of national classified data .
Military defence inspections were focused primarily on verifying the ordered level of preparedness , monitoring the SAF transformation , manning of units with professional soldiers and contract reserves and their training ( especially in units designated for international operations ) , professionalisation and logistical support of SAF units and units committed to Alliance's operations .
A number of inspections of administrative and subject-matter defence issues looked into finance operations to verify whether the financial plans were carried out legally , efficiently and economically .
They comprised public tenders , with an emphasis on the implementation of signed contracts for the supply of goods and services , submitting of purchasing orders for military equipment and weapons , budget implementation , paying of compensation and allowances for employees , and calculations for the reimbursement of costs and compensations to contract reserves .
For the first time , an inspection of arms and equipment production and trade was performed , during which the inspectors examined the procedures for obtaining permits for weapons trade , consents for the production and permits for specific arms and equipment trade businesses .
In 2004 , there were 23 internal inspections of the implementation of specific areas included in the Classified Data Act and in regulations deriving from this law .
The results showed that the number of documents marked with security classification had been significantly reduced .
The results below relate to the last four years .
Defence inspection results for the period 2001-2004
Insp . area
Total
Year
No. of conducted inspections
No. of inspection days
No. of ordered corrective measures
Average no . of corrective measures per inspection
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
Importantly , the number of inspection days and the number of corrective measures were not reduced .
The Inspectorate was concerned with the achievement of the strategic goals of the Ministry . To this end it was preoccupied with identifying system shortfalls and the completion of corrective measures by subjects of inspections .
They were interested in the compliance of the activities with laws and by-laws that govern individual areas and conducted overall situation inspections in the inspected units .
2.8 Inspections in the area of protection against natural and other disasters
Inspectors issued 1,434 decisions , 31 more than in 2003 .
In 184 municipalities , the inspectors scrutinised earthquake response plans .
They also inspected 57 companies tasked with the preparation of protection and rescue plans and obliged to comply with the SEVESO II Directive .
As soon as the regulations were adopted , we started with systematic control of their implementation , thus accelerating this process .
In order to contribute to the safety of swimming areas we submitted 15 judgements on operational permits for natural swimming areas and conducted 119 inspections of all swimming areas .
In the second half of 2003 , new regulations were adopted pertaining to all swimming areas .
During the inspections it was established that most of the swimming areas had already adjusted their operations to the new legislative provisions .
In 2004 , inspectors completed 15,848 administrative tasks , most of them related to the issuing of consents for obtaining building permits , and least of them related to the guidance for spatial planning acts .
They also participated in 3,151 technical inspections .
In 2004 , the personnel of the Inspectorate were trained and qualified to perform tasks of an authority responsible for offences .
Based on the Criminal Offences Act from 2003 , the Slovenian Inspectorate for protection against natural and other disasters ( IPNOD ) is no longer only a classical inspecting authority , in charge of inspecting the implementation of laws and decrees . From 1 January 2005 , it is also an authority responsible for addressing offences .
Until the end of 2004 , 47 inspectors obtained the qualifications necessary to become authorised authorities to address offences .
2.9 Internal auditing service
The purpose of exercising control of public finance is to ensure sound financial operations and efficient internal control , and to provide for coordinated activities of both functions within the ministry .
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
The establishment , operations , oversight and continued improvement of the finance and internal control system , as well as the accuracy and integrity of data , falls under the domain of the management structures of the Ministry .
In 2004 , one unplanned and three regular audits were conducted .
Inspections focused particularly on the existence of internal control mechanisms and testing their efficiency in allocating funds for the Slovenian ACPDR , small-value orders for the SAF , and partially for the management of state property ( housing ) .
Thorough checks verified whether controls were carried out according to plans ( or whether they were used to identify and prevent potential mistakes ) and whether they were effective ( in terms of methods applied , consistency of use and responsible authorities ) .
The internal control system requires some adjustment in selected audited functional areas of the ministry .
Our findings show that control mechanisms have been introduced in individual sectors ; however , in some areas , they are still inadequate or not operational at all .
As a result of this situation , consultations were organised on internal control for department heads . They were given recommendations to prepare detailed descriptions of business processes , identify risks , determine appropriate risk management methods , prepare a risk matrix , and develop control mechanisms and activities for the risks identified , which would help the management of the Ministry to reduce and manage risks .
A register of risks ( transfers in the area of protection and rescue ) was developed to include a list of risks and internal control activities intended for the management of such risks .
2.10 Intelligence and security activities
The year 2004 saw the introduction of several organisational measures targeted at tasks and responsibilities in intelligence and security structures of NATO and the EU , and provision of suppor t to defence refor ms in the intelligence and security area .
Improvements were made to the organisation and coordination of intelligence and security operations within the ISS and the SAF .
The service was expanded with a Situation Centre ( SITCEN ) and , in July , a National Intelligence Cell ( NIC ) was set up as part of the SFOR ( EUFOR ) operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina .
Secure information links were established to facilitate transmission of intelligence with NATO .
The ISS also organised training in classified information procedures for a majority of the civilian personnel of the Ministry and some SAF service members .
In November 2004 , the ISS obtained accreditation for NATO Sub-Registry .
The accreditation process involved fulfilment of minimum requirements that are necessary for facilities bearing the security classification SECRET .
Other legal and formal requirements , including the highest security requirements , will have to be met in the future , in relation to both technical and physical safeguarding and internal supervision
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
One of the priority tasks of the Directorate for Defence Policy last year was the provision of the necessary human and material resources for the NATO Central Registry at the MOD .
The information system for the transmission of NATO classified information was also set up . The system facilitates the exchange of documents and other electronic data between NATO sub-registries and NATO Central Registry in Brussels .
Significant progress was made in organising and providing resources for the management and storage of classified information for level I security area , namely for customers from the MOD who lack appropriate facilities and equipment .
In 2004 , the MOD increased the funding for application-related scientific research work and technological development .
Therefore , a system of identifying development needs of the MOD was introduced , priority lists were compiled , public tenders published and agreements with contractors concluded .
In this way conditions were created for scientific research tasks and technological development plans of both a classified and public nature .
With identifying research and development needs and by setting key tasks , we focused primarily on the attainment of objectives planned for individual organisational units and their engagement in meeting MOD objectives .
487 million SIT or 39 % of these funds were allocated for research and development projects in the economic sector , and 763 million SIT , or 61 %, for other sectors .
This indicates a minimum 100 % increase in funds earmarked for research and development compared to previous years .
The TRP tender comprised the following research projects :
? the SAF in the 21st century ,
PROGRESS MADE IN INDIVIDUAL AREAS OF WORK IN SLOVENIAN MOD IN 2004
? development of communications and information systems for the SAF and the defence system as a whole ,
? development and management of the defence system .
The process of gradual integration into the bodies and committees of the NATO Research and Technology Organisation ( RTO ) began .
We committed ourselves to participate in one of the joint development projects within NATO .
3 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
3.1 Human resource management
The principles of new government administration legislation , introduced through the Law on Civil Servants , by-laws and defence area regulations were also taken into account .
Changes and amendments were made to the Defence Law , and some stipulations concerning professional work in the defence area were expanded . These refer to clauses on the appointment and release of commanders and other service members to and from formation duties ( including defence inspectors ) , on promotion of military personnel in rank and pay , and evaluation of their qualifications and success within the performance evaluation system .
Arrangements were made to regulate the status of career personnel who had sustained disabling injuries at work or occupational diseases .
Special attention was given to rights and obligations of personnel in the defence area who do not possess the appropriate educational level for their posts .
One of the possible legal means to resolve personnel discrepancies in the military was also the relinquishing of rank .
New management elements were introduced into the human resource management system , such as an annual performance evaluation and annual interviews with government employees . A new post systematisation plan of the Ministry began , based on the principles of the new government administration legislation .
3.1.1 Personnel plan of the MoD and its constituent bodies
The general personnel plan enacted by the Government of Slovenia served as the basis for the adoption of a uniform MOD personnel plan for year 2004 , which laid down a more restrictive recruitment policy for the civilian part of the Ministry and the manning of SAF units with an additional 600 new troops .
In accordance with this plan , the MOD approved 1,626 employees for the administrative part of the Ministry ( internal organisational units of the MOD , Slovenian ACPDR , Slovenian IPNOD and the Defence Inspectorate ) and 6,946 employees for the SAF on 31 December 2004 .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
On 31 December 2004 , the total strength of internal organisational units and constituent bodies of the ministry reached 8,522 employees .
In comparison with the previous year , the number of employees rose by 572 persons or 7.2 %, mainly due to intensive recruiting for SAF .
The number of personnel in internal organizational units ( IOU ) of the Ministry and the Slovenian DI decreased by 7 persons or 0.6 %, while the number of employees in the Slovenian ACPDR increased by 14 persons or 4.3 %, with 12 employees being transferred from other government agencies along with their positions and finance .
Comparison of personnel flow within the Slovenian MOD in the years from 2001 to 2004
IOU MOD
Slovenian DI
Included in organisational units of Slovenian MOD
Slovenian ACPDR
Slovenian IPNOD
Administrative part ( 1 ? 4 )
SAF
TOTAL
It is evident from the table that recruitment for the SAF in 2003 and 2004 was more intensive than in 2001 and 2002 .
Since 31 December 2002 , the number of employees had increased by 1,356 , whereby recruitment of soldiers was given priority in accordance with the planned professionalisation process .
An additional 400 persons are planned for employment with the SAF in 2005 as part of the professionalisation project .
Based on the principles of the new legislation on government administration , the employees will be divided into government officials and support staff .
Government employees performing military duties for the SAF and administrative part of the MOD also fall into the category of officials .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Administrative part of the Ministry
Table 5 :
Overview of officials , appointed and support positions in the administrative part of the Ministry based on the post systemisation plan
IOU MOD
Slovenian DI
Slovenian ACPDR
Slovenian IPNOD
Appointed government official
Position of government officials designated for military duty
Support posts
From the perspective of professional education , the records , as of 31 December 2004 , indicate that 277 employees in the administrative part of the MOD were lacking appropriate qualifications , 200 of whom were employed with IOU , 62 with the Slovenian ACPDR , and 15 with the Slovenian IPNOD , totalling 17.5 % of all personnel in the administrative part .
In comparison with 2002 , when the number of employees with inadequate education reached 345 persons , the latter was reduced by additional 68 persons or 4.5 %.
Slovenian Armed Forces
Recruitment for the SAF in 2003 and 2004 was more intensive than ever before , mainly as a result of the relevant long-term professionalisation plans for the SAF and different ways of promoting the military profession .
In 2004 , 821 new personnel were employed by the SAF , 774 of whom were soldiers , one a non-commissioned officer , 12 officers , 33 CSUs and one civilian . Employment contracts were terminated in 243 cases , 14 persons were transfer red to the administrative par t and one employee from the administrative part was employed by the SAF .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Table 6 :
Status/Date
Officers
Senior CSUs
CSUs
Civilian personnel
Total
The 2004 records for this category include only the Intelligence and Security Agency personnel who had been transferred to the SAF .
Records indicate that new hiring was focused primarily on formation-related soldier duties .
The establishment of a proper ratio between officers , non-commissioned officers and soldiers as one of the objectives of employment policy went through significant changes . In comparison with 2000 , the ratio changed in favour of soldiers . The growing balance corresponding the planned ratios is also evident from the following chart .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Another purpose of the new hiring policy is rejuvenation of the military career structure .
By recruiting for formation duties , which requires newly employed personnel to meet the prescribed educational requirements and other criteria based on the Defence Law and the Law on Government Employees , the proportion of SAF service members with inadequate professional qualifications for respective duties was reduced .
As of 31 December 2004 , the percentage of personnel lacking appropriate education amounted to 14 % ( 971 employees ) , and 22.3 % in 2002 ( 1,247 employees ) .
In 2004 , 246 service members , or 25.3 % of the SAF total , lacked the necessary professional competence and were not required to acquire one according to the applicable legislation .
The reduction of personnel with inadequate education was related to the service members who obtained the missing qualifications in 2003 and 2004 and to reassignments to posts where the prescribed criteria were met .
In line with the changes and amendments to the Defence Law , the adopted clauses will , therefore , ensure the extension of the deadline concerning the acquisition of required education by 14 January 2009 .
Education and training was conducted in accordance with adopted plans . It focused on the improvement of professional education and skills of employees and upgrading of knowledge through new functional training programmes .
In accordance with the new system-related legislation , a new Ministry regulation was being developed on education , training and professional qualifications .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
To meet the needs , six scholarships were awarded for the administrative part of the Ministry and seven for the SAF . Currently there are 107 holders of scholarships .
The Ministry enables them to perform their mandatory practical work .
Seventy students took part in camps in 2004 . The Ministry also provides financial support for two students at the West Point military academy in the US.
Seminars were conducted for employees to help prepare them for state exams .
At the beginning of the year when , in accordance with legal stipulations , state exams were also administered for soldier candidates , two seminars were organised for approximately 250 interns at the Defence Training Centre ( DTC ) Poljee .
As stipulated by the decree on type of education , professional training and examination of management and decision - making skills concerning offence procedures , 22 employees were referred for training at the Administration Academy seminar and 93 employees attended a seminar in DTC Poljče .
The DTC Poljče carried out 285 various forms of education and training in civil defence , information technology , communications , functional skills , and military-professional expertise , NATO integration support activities and operations , and other programmes attended by 9,847 participants .
Language training organised in spring 2004 was successfully completed by 139 candidates ; 124 in English , 3 in German and 12 in French .
The autumn semester training involved 177 candidates ; 148 in English , 8 in German and 21 in French .
Because of the increased needs for English language skills by the personnel from the administrative part of the Ministry , some of the language training programmes were outsourced .
These courses included 18 Ministry executives .
For supplementary education , an internal contest was published in the 2003/2004 academic year to deal with education deficiencies . As a result , 130 contracts were concluded with SAF service members .
Driven by a needs analysis , there was another internal contest published for the 2004/2005 academic year with the pur pose of eliminating education deficiencies and supplementing the existing levels of education .
There are 303 education contracts on record , namely 244 for SAF and 59 for the administrative part .
Education , training and supplementary education were also offered to the employees through various international programmes : IMET , Marshall Centre , Ausbildungshilfe , MTAP , NATO School Oberammergau , NDC , and through bilateral cooperation with various nations .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Last year , 109 employees attended training and supplementary education programmes longer than one month , with 10 of them from the administrative part of the Ministry .
In 200 4 , the ministry spent 85,484,790,720 SIT , or 358 million EUR , for the accomplishment of tasks . This makes up 96.1 % of the current financial plan or 98.1 % of the endorsed financial plan .
Throughout the year , amount of committed funds increased by 2.6 billion SIT as a result of increased defence-related income ; these requests were then reduced in the amount of 790 million SIT following decisions by the Government .
Re-allocation of appropriations among direct budget users within the Ministry affected only the spending rights of individual users .
Budget funds are shown in Table 7.
Budget funds for 2004 ( in SIT )
Approved financial plan
Realisation
Defence-related income includes budget items related to its own activities , management of state property , the fire fund , and the lease of movables ( Falcon ) , which was introduced in 2004 .
These funds are typically used according to the purpose of their acquisition and are transferred to the next fiscal year if not spent ( only partially for own activities ) .
The endorsed financial plan corresponds to the funds transferred from the previous year increased by the actual income of the current fiscal year .
The adopted financial plan envisaged 1.5 billion SIT for defence-related income , while the current financial plan amounted to 4.1 billion SIT at the end of the year ( of which 1.2 billion SIT was transferred as unused funds from 2003 and 2.9 billion SIT from the actual inflow in 2004 ) , with a difference of 2.6 billion SIT .
Following decisions by the government , the financial plan was reduced by 790 million SIT .
The funds were spent on celebrating Slovenia's integration into the EU and NATO , the renovation of the government airplane , the Lipica Farmstud , reallocation of funds to other budget users and partial coverage of leased business premises for the Slovenian Administration for Nuclear Safety .
Additional sources of income were earmarked to cover the expenses of fire fighters and rescue personnel during an earthquake in the Soča Valley region , to mitigate the consequences of a hailstorm and to provide funds for the salaries of reassigned customs officers .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Tables 8 and 8.1 show the realization of the MOD financial plan for 2004 by economic purposes and comparison with 2003 .
Table 8 :
Realisation of financial plan 2003
Structure of realisation 2003
Structure of realisation 2004
Growth index
SALARIES
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT ( area 05 )
BUDGET FUNDS TOTAL
FIRE FUND
SALE OF STATE PROPERTY
OWN ACTIVITIES
DEFENCE RELATED INCOME ? TOTAL
Given the entire amount , funds allocated in 2004 for the defence system amounted to 94.2 % and 5.8 % for the system of protection against natural and other disasters .
With 76.8 % of funds realised within the Ministry , the SAF accounts for the biggest direct budget user .
Comparison with 2003 indicates that the growth index of the entire financial realisation amounted to 113.9 , while the spending structure by economic purposes implies a growth of investments and funds for science and technological development . Significant reductions were also recorded in the repayment of the Basic Development Programme ( BDP ) principal and salaries .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Table 8.1 :
ECONOMIC PURPOSES
Current financial plan 2004
Realisation
Percentage of realisation relative to current financial plan
SALARIES
OPERATING COSTS
INVESTMENTS
BDP ( repayment of loan principal )
FIRE FUND
SALE OF STATE PROPERTY
MOVABLES RENTS ( Falcon )
DEFENCE RELATED INCOME ? TOTAL
TOTAL
In compliance with the Regulation on Completion of State and Municipal Budget Implementation for 2004 ( RS Official Gazette , no . 109/04 and 117/04 ) , acceptance of budget-related obligations for 2004 was allowed only until 8 October 2004 , with some exceptions - for example , allowances for business trips , payment of legally valid court rulings and defence-related obligations .
After the said date , conclusion of contracts , issuing of order forms , records of committed funds and reallocation of spending rights were no longer allowed .
In 2004 , 3.5 billion SIT were not allocated , of which 1.9 billion of defence-related income was transferred into fiscal year 2005 . These funds will be earmarked for construction and renovation of facilities .
Although procedures are underway , it will take more than one fiscal year to be complete .
Both the nominal and real growth indexes of the MOD financial plans from 2003 to 2005 were relatively high , mainly as a consequence of the transformation and professionalisation process of the SAF and Slovenian integration into NATO .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Nominal and real growth of defence budget from 2001 to 2005
Year
Defence budget in
SIT
Nominal
Real
Inflation rate in %
In contrast to the defence budget , defence spending also includes military pensions and new acquisitions based on the BDP , excluding funds for the protection and rescue system , and repayment of the loan principal for the BDP .
In 2004 , the defence expenditure of Slovenia totalled 94,872,902,508 SIT , or 397.3 million EUR , representing 1.53 % of the GDP of Slovenia ( Autumn Report 2004 , Office for Macro - Economic Analysis ) .
Over half of these funds , 51 %, were allocated for personnel , 11 % for military pensions , 17 % for operating and maintenance cost , 19 % for procurement of military equipment and construction and renovation of facilities , and just over 1 % for research and development .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Structure of defence spending in 2004 ( in 000 SIT )
Projected defence spending
Realised defence spending
Structure in
% of realisation
Military and civilian personnel
Military pensions
Operating and maintenance cost
Research and development
The comparison of data for defence spending in 2003 and 2004 indicates an increase in 2004 by a nominal index of 109.88 or a real rate of 6.16. The nominal and real growth of defence spending of the Republic of Slovenia in the years from 2001 to 2005 is presented in Table 11.
Table 11 :
Year
Defence spending in thousand SIT
Nominal growth
Inflation rate in %
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
With the realisation of 1.53 % of defence spending in 2004 , the allocated funds displayed a growing tendency relative to GDP , which was in compliance with Slovenian Government projections on a gradual increase of respective share in GDP up to 2 % in 2008 and on maintaining the same level up to 2010 ( Slovenian Government Decision , no . 821-00/2001-3 as of 27 June 2002 ) .
Table 12 :
Defence spending expressed in proportion to Slovenian GDP from 2002 to 2009
YEAR
GDP in Slovenia in billion SIT
Real growth in %
% GDP for defence spending
The projected defence spending until 2010 should allow for the accomplishment of prioritised objectives for this period ; namely , the SAF transformation and accelerated professionalisation , participation in multinational military formations and peace support operations , and completion of tasks related to collective defence which are derived from NATO and EU membership .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Work on the infrastructure proceeded according to the requirements of the professional armed forces , which was identified by Slovenia as an objective following the termination of conscription .
The activities refer to the established standards for specific environmental modification techniques , legislation on construction and environmental protection , and criteria governing gover nment premises adopted in 2004 that apply to both the administrative and military sector of the MOD .
In line with partnership goals and Slovenia's integration into NATO and the EU , the MOD made final arrangements for NATO and EU central registries and finished the building of two helicopter hangars at the Cerklje ob Krki airfield . This included construction of a line maintenance workshop and ammunition maintenance facilities at Borovnica , and collection of documents and administrative permits for the adaptation of air space surveillance facilities .
Under consideration of the circumstances , safeguarding procedures were modified to facilitate protection of the MOD headquarters on the Kardeljeva ploščad and adjacent areas .
By putting a fence around the secured area , the level of safety and protection against potential threats improved , and requirements for enhanced protection of classified information , people , and property in the relevant facilities were fulfilled .
New safety regulations , entry/exit procedures for personnel and supervision performed by security and reception services also affected work conditions . A stricter system of automated registration of working hours was introduced , in addition to the newly issued authorizations .
Improvements were made to traffic regulation , with major changes involving additional 240 parking spaces located at the Internat building and passage routes within the secured area .
Part of the MOD business premises was designated for the security control centre .
This process involved the establishment of appropriate security systems ( level I security areas ) in the facilities and premises within five military posts and explosive ordnance storage areas , the Maribor regional defence office and the defence offices in Tolmin , Piran and Ljutomer .
The entry control system to the premises at Kardeljeva plošead was also upgraded .
In accordance with the reconstruction project and renovation of the former officer candidate school in Maribor , which will be carried out in several stages , the reconstruction of the roof structure was completed and construction systems inspected in order to prevent further deterioration of the building condition .
Activities began for the regulation of the training area at Mlake pri Vipavi , focusing primarily on building a modern firing range for infantry weapons .
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT IN THE SLOVENIAN MOD
Provision of adequate work environments included the installation at Kardeljeva ploščad of a central and individual air-conditioning systems in the amount of 145 million SIT .
The requirements of individual agencies for furniture were covered by drafting a proposal to purchase furniture , with 25 million SIT spent for this procurement .
The housing policy concept was supplemented based on SAF personnel requirements .
Reconstruction work was carried out in 61 vacated and 105 occupied apartments using the funds collected through rents and selling unusable accommodation facilities .
A Decree on the Programme for the Selling of State Financial and Tangible Property 2004 and 2005 was endorsed .
Management of tangible state property includes the selling of worn out and unusable facilities , or facilities intended for replacement , purchasing or renting .
Given the available financial means , maintenance , reconstruction and renovation works were also carried out on individual holiday facilities in the amount of 8.5 million SIT . This , however , allowed only for the most critical maintenance and emergency repairs based on the relevant assessment and the endorsed 60 million SIT .
Project documents were drafted for the restoration of holiday facilities at Debeli rtič . Negotiations were conducted with the GSSAF on a programme for the project design and for the final revitalisation of a facility that is intended for the SAF and holiday purposes .
Documents were drawn up for the restoration of the Izola holiday facility , although financial means and the execution schedule are yet to be provided .
3.3.1 Upgrading the communications infrastructure
In 2004 , more than 100 employees of the MOD , the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , and SAF service members were granted access to NATO secret data network .
Upgrading the communications-information core of the Ministry and the SAF was another accomplishment in 2004 .
The resulting increased traffic capacity of the most heavily loaded parts remained within the limits of the allocated funds .
Transition to a new technology enabled the upgrading of the computer network at Kardeljeva ploščad .
The NCMC was also equipped with a basic communications and information infrastructure .
The Storage Area Network technology , Tivoli management control system and a robust multi-pixel video conference system were introduced .
To perform Air Policing tasks , one of the communication variants was introduced to provide links between the Air Surveillance Operation Centre , and key personnel at the Ministry and the GSSAF .
The construction of the Public Key Infrastructure as required by the MOD and the SAF in 2004 involved mainly preparations for the introduction and testing of technical solutions in the lab environment , professional and technical training , and development of relevant regulations .
The Law on Funding for the Basic Development Programmes of Slovenian Armed Forces 1994 ? 2003 was endorsed in the beginning of 1994 and supplemented in 2001 . The basic law earmarked 76,600 million SIT for equipping the air space surveillance system with air defence and anti armour assets , signals , telecommunications and coastal defence .
Changes and supplements to the law facilitated the extension of programmes up to 2007 and the provision of an additional 65,000 million SIT .
These funds were earmarked for the equipping of reaction forces , improvement of air defence command and control system , and logistic support of the SAF .
Thirty-three contracts in the sum total of 10,341 million SIT were signed and payments in the amount of 18,190,864,717 SIT were effected , which accounted for 89.4 % of funding allocated in 2004 .
The most important equipping and modernisation programmes and projects were :
? procuring new wheeled armoured vehicles 6 x 6 for the 20th Motorized Battalion and equipping with internal communications ,
? launching a supply and maintenance project ,
? continuing the procurement of transport assets ,
? procuring the shortfall of ammunition with a calibre range from 5.56 to 40 mm ,
? drafting investment documents for the replacement of anti-tank assets and light infantry weapons and testing of light infantry armament ,
? improving air transport capabilities through medium-sized helicopters and multipurpose transport aircraft ,
? introducing a new official uniform for the SAF .
2005 plans foresee the delivery of materiel assets for the equipping requirements of the field ROLE 2 medical station , dispensary , and personal and NBC-protection kits for professional troops of the SAF .
Defence spending projections and the adopted regulations will facilitate continued planned execution of the basic development , equipping and modernizing programmes up to 2007 , when the Funding Law for the Basic Development Programmes will cease to apply .
During the validity period of the law , 141.6 million EUR will be available for new projects .
3.5 Information support
There was continued integration of personnel and information systems into a modern system that will be accessible to users based on their authorities .
Activities were related mainly to the transformation of spatial planning data from the state coordinate system into the UTM system ( NATO ) .
The automated registration system of working hours used by the administrative part of the Ministry , which was partially linked with the personnel database , was replaced .
The MFERAC application was expanded by adding a new module for travel orders .
The amended legislation enabled upgrading of the application in the areas of basic asset records and foreign currency accounting services .
New modules of the ISOJAN programme product , designed for information-assisted public tender procedures , were expanded and introduced .
Activities related to basic development programmes were supported through new application products TERAPRO and MATTRP , whereas the STANOVANJA ( housing ) application was upgraded for accommodation purposes .
4 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
On 29 March 2004 Slovenia joined NATO .
Slovenia's membership of the North-Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union was one of the strategic goals since the adoption of the Resolution on the Starting points of the National Security Concept by Slovenia's National Assembly in January 1994 .
After joining NATO , Slovenia intensified its activities concerning the enhancement of international peace and became involved in crisis response operations , including peace support and humanitarian operations .
In 2004 , Slovenia contributed troops to inter national forces operating in Kosovo , Afghanistan ( ISAF ) , Syria ( UNTSO ) , and Bosnia and Herzegovina ( SFOR ) .
Slovenia's focus on international relations was and will remain on South Eastern Europe , although Slovenia will have to provide readiness for operations in other crisis areas as well following its international commitments and obligations in NATO .
Negotiations were held with NATO on requirements and assignments in relevant structures and commands .
Twenty SAF service members were allocated to these tasks .
Through Slovenia's membership in NATO , participation in the relevant working bodies also intensified .
4.2 Integration into the EU
As an EU member since 1 May 2004 , Slovenia has been actively involved in the development and creation of the European Security and Defence Policy ( ESDP ) .
Priorities set by Slovenia and the MOD for 2004 involved the development of a new headline goal 2010 by the EU and the further development of EU military capabilities .
Efforts were focused on Slovenia's involvement in the European Capability Action Plan ( led by the ECAP project group ) , with participation in three ECAP project groups , namely ISTAR ( Intelligence , Surveillance and Target ) , command capabilities ( HQ ) and NBC .
In the second half of 2004 , priorities were set on the establishment of EU Rapid Response Capabilities and the consequent formation of battle groups .
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
A secure and stable South Eastern Europe , including the Western Balkans , is of paramount importance for security of Slovenia .
In 2004 , Slovenia took part in the development and creation of the European Defence Agency and became one of its founding members on 12 July 2004 .
The agency will assume an important role in developing EU military capabilities and coordinating relevant policy in the equipping and armament spheres .
4.3 Bilateral cooperation
The basic aim of bilateral cooperation was to accomplish tasks designed for efficient and direct support for Slovenia's integration and activities as a trustworthy partner of NATO and the EU.
Cooperation involved 24 countries , based on programmes or individually agreed activities , with more than 400 events planned .
Several official and working bilateral defence ministerial meetings were carried out with FYROM , Austria , Italy , France and the United Kingdom .
Topics of discussion ranged from Slovenia's integration into the Euro-Atlantic establishments , cooperation in peace suppor t operations , defence reforms , and bilateral cooperation , to assessing the status of South Eastern Europe and of the wider region .
A security-political dialogue was traditionally organised with the Republic of Austria .
More than 65 participants from 31 countries and international organisations attended the event .
The aim of the conference was to unite and unify different forms of cooperation and engagement , as well as to economise financial and personnel capabilities earmarked by the international community for MAP participants ( Croatia , Albania and FYROM ) , and two aspirants for Partnership for Peace , Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina in their accession to Euro-Atlantic establishments .
As a leading nation , Slovenia increased contacts with FYROM to identify and find additional ways and forms of supporting priorities set by FYROM .
Eleven activities , including a regular annual meeting , were organised with foreign military diplomatic representatives accredited to Slovenia .
With the opening of the Russian military attaché office in Ljubljana , the number of accredited foreign residential military attachés increased to nine .
4.4 Multilateral cooperation
Regional cooperation involved active engagement on the part of the MOD in the following areas :
? Multinational Land Force ( MLF ) constituting the military component of quadrilateral forces
? Central European Nations ' Cooperation in Peace Support ( CENCOOP )
? South Eastern Europe Defence Ministerial ( SEDM )
? Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe
? Regional Arms Control and Verification Implementation Assistance Centre ( RACVIAC )
With reference to the future of MLF , the Letter of Intent Concerning the Multinational Italian ? Hungarian ? Slovenian EU Battle Group was signed at an informal meeting of the EU in September 2004 . The intent was officially presented at the EU MCCC in November 2004 , in the Netherlands .
CENCOOP hosted the first meeting of Chiefs of Defence from member states . From now on , such meetings will be organised on an annual basis . CENCOOP members agreed to Hungarian proposal on information exchange concerning operations and plans of units for peace support operations . The Austrian ? Slovenian initiative for the creation of the CENCOOP Academy was also presented .
Slovenia's main efforts concentrated on declaring SHIRBRIG for the UNMISUD peace support operation in Sudan and on a report prepared by the working group which had been involved in reviewing the SHIRBRIG concept .
The working group had prepared an action plan that was adopted at the 23rd meeting of SHIRBRIG in November 2004 , in Copenhagen , Denmark .
The most important event of the SEDM initiative was the defence ministerial meeting held from 4 to 5 November 2004 in Ljubljana .
At this meeting , the SEDM Defence Ministers adopted a common resolution on the General Timeframe for SEEBRIG Deployment . Considerable attention was dedicated to the results of an evaluation performed by NATO JFC from Naples .
The purpose of this evaluation was for SEEBRIG to obtain a NATO certificate for full combat preparedness .
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
As part of CBSC WG activities , Slovenia and the US co-organised a seminar on Border Security from 8 to 12 September at Bled .
The MOD and other governmental institutions participated in the SEESIM-04 exercise organised within the framework of SEDM .
The St abilit y Pact for South Easter n Europe involved par ticipation of MOD representatives within the framework of the third working table on security , defence and internal issues .
In 2004 , activities focused primarily on participation of the Verification Centre personnel and officers of SAF in arms control courses , both as course participants and instructors .
In fulfilling commitments derived from international agreements and contracts based on Slovenia's membership of the UN , the Ministry acceded to the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons ( CWC ) , the Convention on the Prohibition of Anti - Personnel Mines , the Convention on the Ban or Restriction of Use of Specific Types of Conventional Weapons ( CCW ) , the UN Register on Trade in Conventional Weapons , and the UN Programme on Small Arms and Light Weapons ( SALW ) .
As part of its membership within the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) , the Ministry fulfilled obligations related to the Vienna Document 99 , Forum for Security Cooperation ( FSC ) , Document on Small Arms and Light Weapons , Dayton Agreement ( Article V , Annex 1 B ) , Code of Conduct on Political and Military Security Aspects , and other multilateral treaties and agreements .
Slovenia ratified the Open Skies Treaty . Coordination activities concerning instructions on the organisation and accomplishment of active and passive inspections based on the Open Skies Treaty are underway at the Ministry .
In the field of political-military and the wider security dimensions , preparations for the Slovenian OSCE presidency and participation in " Troika " ( former , future and present country in the chair ) involved participation of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the MOD .
The MOD prepared political-military positions for the OSCE project group at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , for the Slovenian representative attending ASRC in June 2004 and for the organisation of the 12th OSCE Ministerial Meeting in December 2004 in Sofia .
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
The International Relations Service was expanded through a Defence Diplomacy Department responsible for guidance , direction and analysis of activities by Slovenian diplomatic representatives abroad and tasked with the provision of the relevant material and financial means .
Slovenian defence attachés were responsible for 19 countries in addition to their countries of residence .
Residential defence attachés were also posted in all of Slovenia's neighbouring countries .
At their regular annual meeting , the military diplomatic representatives were briefed on new developments in the defence area and obtained instructions and guidance for further work .
5 PUBLIC INFORMATION
The Public Information Service provided comprehensive and timely information to the public on all fundamental processes and events in the defence area , responded with credible explanations to issues raised by journalists and had intensive contacts with the MOD employees .
Efforts are focused on informing personnel of the Ministry and the SAF at the initial stage , and collecting as much information as possible in order to enhance the responsiveness of the employees .
In 2004 , MOD began participating in training programmes for Ministry personnel for effective communication skills with the general public and appearances in mass media .
Training concentrates on acquainting the personnel with information services and the opportunities available for their involvement .
The intention is to provide the staff with topical , quality , updated , critical and reliable information on the issues which create , co-shape and condition the work atmosphere at the Ministry .
The year before a wide media campaign for NATO integration that engaged representatives of the MOD was planned and executed . Personnel of the Public Information Service were busy disseminating information on the work and importance of NATO .
2004 saw a significant , yet not a total , reduction in critical articles .
The interest of the Slovenian public in defence , search and rescue issues , and the SAF has become moderate and stable .
This position of the mass media is also evident from the fact that the MOD and the SAF are regularly ranked among the five most trustworthy institutions in Slovenia .
The amount of written answers to issues raised by domestic and foreign journalists did not change considerably , which indicates the same level of interest in the defence area .
Media inquiries were processed in accordance with the timeframe defined by the Law on the Media , usually on the same day as the query was received .
Far fewer questions pertained to unexpected events or potential affairs , which leads to a conclusion that the Public Information Service provided quality services .
PUBLIC INFORMATION
Extensive media coverage included primarily the reorganisation of the SAF .
The public was regularly informed about the selection process of candidates for various posts in the SAF and about SAF operations in international peace support missions .
The MOD was carefully scrutinised by the public as a government institution and user of the national budget .
On the other hand , the quantity of information requested on announced events and published for the public increased considerably - by more than half - compared with 2003 .
This is another indication that the public was thoroughly informed about the activities performed by the Ministry and the SAF , as a consequence of better information services from the internal organisational units .
Overview of events
Public information
Events
Replies provided to foreign mass media
Replies to citizens
Explanations
Total
Total
Difference
- Page
Republic of Slovenia
Ministry of Defence
STRATEGIC DEFENCE REVIEW
Comprehensive Summary
Contents
Introduction
Purpose of defence reforms
Key starting points of the Strategic Defence Review
Changes in the strategic environment
Living environment
Economic and social environment
Information technology environment
Threats to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia
Defence policy
Multinational integration and cooperation
Participation in international operations
Defence planning
Defence resources
Strategic vision to 2015
Security policy of the Republic of Slovenia
Defence resources and key capabilities
Slovenian Armed Forces
Purpose of the SAF
Tasks of the SAF
Key challenges
Development assumptions
Key development principles and development of SAF capabilities
Capabilities and envisaged structure of the SAF in 2010
Modernisation of military capabilities
Civil defence and crisis management
Purpose
Civil defence
Crisis management
Tasks
Crisis management
Planning assumptions
Key development principles
Modernisation
Purpose
Tasks
Key development principles
Key development challenges
Purpose
Planning assumptions and key development principles
Purpose
Key development challenges and goals
Purpose
Establishing a modern personnel function
Overall development of human resources and human capital
Organisational structure of the MoD
Characteristics
Administrative territorial organisation
Conclusions
Dynamic changes in the security environment , membership of the EU and NATO and the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces have all lead to the need for a rational modification of Slovenia's national security and national defence system .
Radical changes in security are the result of internal and external security issues , while the consequential reform of the defence sector is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the defence system .
Development of the defence system must take into account new circumstances and changes in the international security environment as well as national interests , goals and available resources .
The document is at the same time general and focused on the long-term , but also practical with short-term orientations .
The Strategic Defence Review has given us the relevant basis for an extensive and thorough analysis of the further development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and of the defence system .
It has also defined a firm basis for further implementation of the defence reforms and strong guarantees for matching defence reforms with available resources and the new security challenges .
The resulting defence system will enable the development of well trained , motivated and combat capable defence forces which will be able to carry out all types of missions and tasks .
Anton GRIZOLD
Minister of Defence
1.1 Purpose of defence reforms
Defence reforms are a necessary consequence of changes in the external and internal factors which have affected , or will affect , the operation and effectiveness of the defence system .
Defence reforms have been under way for some time , and with changes in national goals , availability of resources and threats to national interests , we now need to carry out a Strategic Defence Review which will result in orientations being set for further implementation of reforms in the defence field .
In the past decade many changes have occurred in the security environment , and with its accession to NATO and the European Union in 2004 Slovenia is taking on a growing obligation in relation to the controlling and shaping of these changes .
The key changes in external factors are the increasingly diverse , unpredictable and constantly changing international environment , the ever more frequent and intensive regional and local conflicts , and the changing nature and priorities of security risks and threats ( particularly since 11 September 2001 ) .
The changes in the environment necessitate a thorough consideration of the new mission , tasks and capabilities of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia ( Slovenian Armed Forces or " SAF " ) , and Slovenia's entire defence system will need to adapt to these changes .
This is what the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia must be if they are to be recognised as trustworthy at home and abroad and capable of fulfilling their national and international role .
1.2 Process of defence reforms
The Strategic Defence Review is the basis for the implementation or continuation of defence reforms .
It is essential that the activities and resources enable achievement of the desired strategic results as far as ensuring national security is concerned .
The implementation of the defence reforms also encompasses financial and human resource management , armaments and military equipment , as well as the other parts of the defence system .
1.3 Key starting points of the Strategic Defence Review
The national security environment is exposed to new and changed risks and threats which represent the main challenge to the security of the Republic of Slovenia , while the likelihood of a military threat remains relatively small .
International organisations will continue to have a key role in the stabilisation of the Euro-Atlantic security environment .
4. The transformation of the SAF must take into account the need for a balance between mission , tasks , modernisation ( equipment ) and resources .
In the past decade conflicts have been dominated by ethnic and border disputes , which are frequently incited and accompanied by political , economic and social destabilisation of environments .
Potential points of conflict in our immediate region and beyond are the Balkans , the Middle East and the Caucasus .
In Slovenia's strategic environment the majority of sources of threat are asymmetric .
The importance of traditional military threats is declining , although they cannot be entirely ruled out . While military sources of threat are limited , non-military sources of threat are becoming ever more frequent , with terrorism , drug trafficking , organised crime and weapons of mass destruction particularly notable .
The appropriate response to asymmetric threats lies in forming a unified and integrated national security system , incorporated into both the collective defence system and the collective security system , with the key elements of the power of the state needing to be used effectively to ensure political , diplomatic , economic , information and military security .
Slovenia needs to set up a responsive national security system , including the defence system as part of it , which will be able to adapt effectively to frequent and intensive changes in the strategic environment and reduce the possibility of crises occurring , and which will be able to respond decisively and successively to negative developments that may lead to a state of emergency .
In peacetime its tasks will be dominated by various forms of exercise and training , providing assistance in the event of natural and other disasters , participating in crisis response operations and tasks connected with supporting other governmental agencies and organisations in ensuring the security and welfare of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia .
The range of military tasks in wartime will be wider , and the unpredictability and range of operational tasks will be increased .
2.1 Living environment
A healthy and stable living environment is an essential precondition for ensuring an appropriate level of general ( national ) security .
At the same time it also has a strong influence on the personal development of the individual and the development of society as a whole , as well as general social welfare .
Both the natural environment and all the interferences and activities of man within the environment have an impact on the guaranteeing of security .
posameznik , družba , država kot tudi mednarodna skupnost so vse bolj odvisni od stanja v okolju .
At the same time we need to acknowledge the fact that in an absolute sense dependence and vulnerability resulting from the natural environment remain high .
The social environment has developed in parallel with technological development , including the aspect of guaranteeing greater human security .
General social progress and prosperity also directly increase the level of security .
At the same time this same environment represents new sources of threat which result from man's interference and activities in the environment .
In particular , the possibility of planetary destruction in the event of global nuclear conflict has increased , as has the possibility of technological and other disasters .
As far as national security is concerned , the natural environment is important primarily because it represents a source of many natural disasters , such as earthquakes , landslides , floods and so on .
posledice nekaterih bi utegnile segati prek meja naše države , zato bo morala RS tudi v prihodnje temu vidiku zagotavljanja nacionalne varnosti posvečali veliko pozornost .
The living environment will always represent an essential security element , and with the changing strategic environment will continue to have a decisive influence on the guaranteeing of national security in the future .
2.2 Economic and social environment
The economic and social environment , its laws , characteristics and phenomena , directly affect and shape the political and security processes , and therefore we treat this environment as an essential element as far as guaranteeing security is concerned .
In this era of globalisation , countries ' economies are becoming increasingly connected and inter-dependent , and thus more sensitive to global economic trends .
Slovenia is also actively working to achieve a stabilisation and strengthening of the social environment in the region , as greater social security in the region means greater security for the Republic of Slovenia and a reduction in non-military sources of threat to our country .
The security and stability of the economic and social environment is dependent on a large number of mutually related factors .
Therefore it is essential as far as regional stabilisation is concerned that appropriate social patterns based on mutual tolerance and modern civilised values develop alongside the development of the economy and general social well-being .
Slovenia's membership of the EU will certainly have positive effects that will strengthen the capacity of the Slovenian economy .
And membership of NATO also has a positive impact on our economic strength and on the economic and political standing of Slovenia in the international environment .
These effects will be mainly medium and long term , and dependent above all on the preparedness of the Slovenian economy .
The expansion of markets and the opening up of Slovenia's economy are also increasing the danger and the possibility of economic destabilisation in Slovenia resulting from economic shocks in the international market .
Slovenia must seek to formulate a social policy that guarantees social security for all its inhabitants .
The key elements of such a policy are socially oriented education and health systems and an effective policy to reduce unemployment .
In the future the Ministry of Defence ( MoD ) and in particular the SAF will be among the country's bigger consumers , and also one of the bigger employers , and one which will have an impact on both economic dimensions ( e.g. promoting research and development and production for specific purposes ) and social dimensions ( e.g. employment ) .
2.3 Information technology environment
It has a complex social impact because the pace at which it is developing and the numerous innovations force us to make rapid changes in many areas of human activity , and thus it has a decisive role in helping to shape changes in the security and defence field too .
In today's world the timely possession and management of relevant information is of critical importance .
Information technology is also essential for management of the defence system , as up-to-date collection and rapid processing of data mean successful planning and correct decision-making .
govorimo o (zlo)rabi informacijskih sistemov .
Therefore the formation of information systems that will enable integration and adequate protection and security of all their elements is extremely important for the national security system .
Control and adequate protection of the information technology environment is extremely important as far as guaranteeing national security is concerned because otherwise the positive effects of information technology development can have very negative effects on national security .
With the globalisation of economic and political relations comes security , defence and military globalisation too .
Therefore , with the aim of ensuring its own national security and consolidating peace , security and stability in the international community , Slovenia will continue to develop its own national security system .
In order to confront today's security threats NATO must be capable of effective command of military operations outside the territory of its member states . Both for NATO and for its individual members this represents a new political and military challenge .
At the same time it should be stressed that Slovenia and the other future NATO members are already actively cooperating to develop the joint capabilities of the Alliance and as a result are to a certain extent already included in the formation of joint capabilities .
Slovenia will continue the restructuring of the SAF so that , together with the Allies , it will be able to participate as effectively as possible in ensuring peace , security and stability in the international community , including collective defence tasks .
In the international security and defence environment the EU is also having an increasing presence , and is expressing a clear interest in forming its own military capabilities which it would use in cases where it wished to carry out or lead military operations outside the framework of the Alliance .
Slovenia will be actively involved in the processes of closer European defence cooperation , on the evident assumption that this will not mean a duplication of existing NATO capabilities .
The formation of European military capabilities is still only in the initial phase , and the full realisation of this project will first of all require a general political consensus among the EU members as to its content and scale .
For Slovenia it is particularly important that joining NATO and the EU will further strengthen its security position and increase its possibility of influencing political and security processes in the international community .
Another organisation of particular importance as far as the stabilisation and strengthening of positive international relations and ensuring international security are concerned is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) .
The OSCE has played a very active role in the former Yugoslavia and directly contributed to the stabilisation of the security situation in Slovenia's immediate neighbourhood . In the future the OSCE will continue to be present primarily in areas where there is inadequate political , economic and social stability and where preventive political measures are required to ensure stability .
Preserving the stable peace in the region will be achievable with a strengthening of cooperation together with a continuing visible passive and also , where necessary , active military presence of the international community .
Nevertheless , instability and tension in South-East Europe and its margins will remain a potential source of threat to European security and hence to the security of the Republic of Slovenia .
A definitive settling and stabilising of the political and security situation in the former Yugoslavia and the wider region is of vital importance for Slovenia .
It is very much for this purpose that Slovenia is highly active in the Stability Pact for South-East Europe .
2.5 Military environment
The armed forces of the advanced industrial nations have brought what was the primary task of protecting national and Allied territory into line with changes in the strategic environment .
As well as preventing and managing conflicts outside the national territory and Allied territory , armed forces today are managing crisis and post-crisis environments and providing assistance in the elimination of non-military sources of threat .
In the future , basic sources of security threat will come from politically , socially , economically and ecologically destabilised areas , terrorist organisations and international organised crime groups , mass migration , proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and so on .
Armed forces too will be more involved in controlling these threats , and because of the globalisation of the sources of threat they will be obliged to carry out combined and joint international operations .
The main principles of the ( combat ) operations of armed forces in the future will be :
deployability , i.e. the ability to reach a crisis area in the shortest possible time and be capable of ( combat ) operations as soon as possible
sustainability , i.e. the ability to carry out tasks independently and effectively
survivability , i.e. the capability to defend one's own forces
resilience , i.e. resistance to various forms of attack and the capability of long-term operation and performance of various tasks .
Preparations for ( combat ) operations of the armed forces in the future will require thorough changes in exercises , management training , development of concepts and doctrines and development and introduction of new ( combat ) equipment .
Modern armed forces will be capable of operating in very diverse weather conditions and in very diverse terrains where the enemy may use conventional and unconventional forms of warfare .
Unconventional , asymmetric warfare and system-against-system warfare are taking the place of conventional forces-against-forces warfare .
In line with changes in the strategic environment , which is increasingly being defined by a high degree of dynamism and unpredictability of events , the SAF will have to be capable of adapting , operating and responding to both conventional and unconventional types of national security threat .
The SAF will develop and maintain adequate capabilities for deterring conventional and unconventional types of threat to national security interests , for effective national defence , participation in alliances and coalitions , and in civil protection and disaster relief .
SAF units will have to be modular and adaptable to different tasks and requirements , capable of joint and simultaneous operation with other units and linked to a modern information system .
2.6 Threats to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia
Slovenia enjoys a relatively high degree of security in a relatively unstable regional and international environment in which , like other advanced industrial nations , it may in the future be increasingly exposed to asymmetric , non-military security risks and threats .
Among the most obvious forms of threat to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia in the forthcoming period are international organised crime , illegal migration , international terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction .
Therefore we need to further improve the coordination and integration of security and defence structures to meet such threats and for this purpose to supplement the regulatory , technical and other solutions .
In terms of substance these are traditional security problems but ones which , because of their growing dimension and intensity , may in specific circumstances also require the cooperation of defence structures to a certain limited extent .
In general , all the most current forms of security risk and threat are transnational . As a result , international cooperation , including participation in the collective security and collective defence system , is an increasingly indispensable part of preventing and controlling such risks .
A condition for successful prevention , limitation and control of modern-day security risks and threats is their constant and comprehensive monitoring and evaluation , which in the defence field must always be followed by timely and appropriate adaptation of military and non-military mechanisms and instruments .
3 National security and defence policy of the Republic of Slovenia
The most important goal of national security policy , deriving from the permanent vital and strategic interests and values of the Republic of Slovenia , is to ensure the security of the Republic of Slovenia , to protect and preserve the national identity and to cooperate in the strengthening of peace , security and stability at the regional and global levels .
For the purpose of achieving this goal Slovenia is actively participating in regional and global security institutions such as the UN , NATO , the EU and the OSCE .
Slovenia's foreign policy goals , including consolidation of the country's international position and reputation , good and stable relations with its neighbours , membership of the EU and NATO , membership of the OECD , active participation in the UN , the OSCE and the WTO , closer cooperation with the countries of Central Europe in the Central European Initiative , active participation in the stabilisation of South-East Europe and strengthening economic cooperation , to an important extent directly determine the national security policy of the Republic of Slovenia .
As a small country with limited resources , Slovenia must ensure its long-term security primarily through constructive cooperation with its neighbours and inclusion in the Euro-Atlantic integrations .
Slovenia is endeavouring to establish and strengthen relations with countries in the region and beyond based on mutual trust and intensive , multifaceted cooperation .
The changing strategic environment and the unpredictability of security risks and threats mean that national security policy must put in place effective security mechanisms and instruments for ensuring an adequate level of national and international security .
In view of these circumstances , the main strategic goals of national security policy in the future will be :
protection and preservation of the national identity
to pursue Slovenia's interests through a system of democratic decision-making
active participation in the NATO Alliance
cooperation in the European Security and Defence Policy ( ESDP )
3.2 Defence policy
With membership of NATO and the EU , the security and defence of Slovenia are no longer just national issues but become an integral part of European and international security and defence . The security and defence of the Republic of Slovenia are thus also ensured in the wider international arena .
The active presence of Slovenian military capabilities in international peace support operations is therefore becoming an important element of our foreign policy .
This approach requires the defence system to be transformed into a modern , responsive and internationally interoperable system .
the multinational integration and cooperation of the SAF in Euro-Atlantic security integrations
the increased scale of participation in international operations
defence planning in line with available defence resources .
3.2.1 Multinational integration and cooperation
3.2.1.2 NATO
At the Prague summit Slovenia was invited to begin negotiations leading to its accession to the North Atlantic Treaty .
During its accession negotiations the Republic of Slovenia formally confirmed its readiness and capability to assume the political and military obligations and commitments arising from the North Atlantic Treaty , the Study on NATO Enlargement and the entire political and legal acquis of NATO , including the policy of NATO and of third countries .
Slovenia will ensure sufficient budgetary resources for implementing its membership obligations in the Alliance .
Slovenia will make a contribution to the joint civil and military budget and to the NATO Security Investments Programme based on the proposed criteria , according to which Slovenia's share is 0.26 % and 0.3018 % ( for activities in which France does not participate ) .
Slovenia recognises and accepts the fact that the Alliance acts on the basis of common positions and the principle of unanimity , and will endeavour to achieve unanimity within the Alliance .
Separately from the accession discussions that dealt with the formal obligations of full membership , Slovenia also took account of the Allies ' advice and drew up a timetable for implementation of defence reforms .
Slovenia joined NATO on 29 March 2004 .
Membership of NATO has further accelerated certain areas of defence reform and created numerous additional responsibilities and obligations connected with the implementation of collective defence and cooperation with the Allies .
We have adopted the relevant legislation for cooperation in collective defence , which provides an appropriate statutory basis for participation by Slovenian forces abroad and also enables Allied forces to enter Slovenia .
Slovenia is also introducing corporate planning , an improved system of defence resource management and planning , and an annual review of the success of the implementation of its plans .
For the requirements of NATO's military capabilities , as expressed in Force Goals , Slovenia will provide a motorised infantry company with rotation capability for cooperation in all NATO tasks , with limitations relating to air defence and communications .
By the end of 2006 we will be capable of providing a motorised infantry battalion .
By the end of 2009 we will be able to provide a fully deployable and supported battalion combat group , and by the end of 2012 a fully deployable and supported battalion combat group with rotation capability .
As far as guaranteeing airspace sovereignty is concerned , the initial operability of the operations centre has been upgraded by full membership of NATO , so that we will be ready to carry out urgent measures to ensure interoperability of airspace control with NATO's integrated air defence system ( NATINEADS ) .
We will also upgrade the communications system for voice and data transfer .
A Host Nation Support system for Allied forces will put in place .
Military education and training will be brought into line with NATO strategy , doctrines , procedures and standards - reaction force units are already being drilled in accordance with these principles .
To meet the need for alignment with the Alliance , we will be training units of the main defence forces in accordance with the common doctrine and procedures of NATO by the end of 2005 , and the other units of the SAF by the end of 2007 .
This will strengthen interoperability , combat effectiveness and deployability and sustainability of units .
We will continue to work towards establishing and retaining a personnel structure comparable with the structure in the Allied nations .
Any surpluses in the armed forces will be tackled by means of retirement , retraining and transfer to positions in other governmental agencies .
We will preserve and improve the transparency of the human resource management system and ensure a career path for officers and civilians comparable with the Allied nations .
Taking into account the new systemic legislation , priority will be given to improving the system of assessment and monitoring of individuals , and the training system will be adapted to incorporate a clearly defined career path .
3.2.1.3 EU and ESDP
With a strengthening of its defence element , the EU will become a reliable transatlantic partner as European security and defence policy and NATO should complement one another .
Slovenia is endeavouring to ensure its strategic security interests through cooperation in the European Security and Defence Policy , which is becoming an increasingly important tool of crisis management , including military operations in which NATO as a whole is not taking part .
Slovenia is also cooperating in the formulation of a European Security Strategy ( ESS ) , by means of which the EU will be able more effectively to implement its foreign and security policy .
In 2005 Slovenia will hold the presidency of the OSCE .
This will enhance its profile in the Euro-Atlantic integrations and confirm its readiness to accept a greater responsibility for strengthening security and cooperation in the OSCE's area of activity as well as in the wider international community .
During its presidency , the Republic of Slovenia will follow the guidelines and commitments laid down in existing documents , in particular the European Security Charter , and the concepts of comprehensive and cooperative security .
The goal will be to secure more flexible and effective operation of the OSCE .
For Slovenia the forthcoming presidency of the OSCE represents a major substantive and organisational challenge , but at the same time an opportunity for promoting and pursuing the security and political interests of the Republic of Slovenia within the multilateral framework of the OSCE .
3.2.1.5 Regional cooperation
The regional strategic environment of the Republic of Slovenia comprises South-East Europe , which includes the western Balkans .
For more than a decade international , regional and national organisations have been intensively involved in attempts to stabilise this region .
Regional cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries is one of the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy and of international cooperation by the MoD .
The aim is to strengthen peace , security and stability and to consolidate trust between the countries of Central and South-East Europe .
Within the framework of the Quadrilateral ( Slovenia , Italy , Hungary and Croatia ) , the MoD and the SAF are participating in the activities of the Multinational Land Force ( MLF ) .
As part of the Joint Guardian ( KFOR ) operation in Kosovo , the MLF command operates within the Italian-German contingent of the Multinational Brigade South-West .
CENCOOP
In 1997 Slovenia joined the South-eastern Europe Defence Ministerial , an initiative to promote cooperation between defence ministries . The aim of defence cooperation between these countries is to strengthen peace , security and stability and to consolidate trust between the countries of South-East Europe .
Slovenia is active in the coordinating committee ( SEDM-CC ) and is also an observer on the Political-Military Steering Committee ( PMSC ) . The PMSC heads the military cooperation within the initiative ( MPFSEE ) .
Slovenia is also actively participating in the South-Eastern European Simulation Network ( SEESIM ) .
Slovenia initiated the setting up of a working group on cooperation between defence ministries in the areas of WMD counter proliferation , border security and counter terrorism .
Stability Pact for South-East Europe and RACVIAC
The Regional Arms Control Verification and Implementation Assistance Centre ( RACVIAC ) operates on the basis of an agreement on the founding of RACVIAC between Germany and Croatia within the framework of the Stability Pact for South-East Europe .
The headquarters of RACVIAC is in Croatia .
RACVIAC also carries out training in the implementation and verification of weapons control .
Slovenia is actively cooperating in the work of RACVIAC and in September 2003 handed over the one-year presidency to Turkey .
The MoD acts as a coordinator between various governmental agencies .
The amendments to Protocols II and IV of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May be Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects ( CCW ) have been ratified .
The Ministry of Defence will also submit an initiative for Slovenia's accession to the adapted Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) Treaty .
March 2003 saw completion of the destruction of anti-personnel mines in the SAF in accordance with the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use , Stockpiling , Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction ( the Ottawa Convention ) , which has applied to Slovenia since 1998 .
3.2.2 Participation in international operations
It is in Slovenia's political and security interests to have a secure and stable immediate and wider security environment because this is the only effective guarantee of a high level of national security .
This basic starting point dictates the need for an active role for the SAF in strengthening international peace , security and stability and in participating in crisis response operations , including peace support and humanitarian operations .
And as a responsible member of the international community , Slovenia will also be prepared to take action in other crisis areas .
A total of approximately 200 members of the SAF are currently involved in the NATO SFOR peace support operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina , in the NATO KFOR international force in Kosovo , in the UN Office of the High Representative ( OHR ) in Bosnia and Herzegovina , in the UN UNTSO mission on the Israeli-Lebanon border and in the peacekeeping operation ISAF 4 in Afghanistan .
3.2.3 Defence planning
3.2.3.1 Defence planning as part of defence policy
The national defence policy is determined by national security threats and national security interests .
Defence planning transforms defence policy into a defence concept and defines the scale and structure of the defence forces .
Defence planning represents an important tool of the state in forming the necessary capabilities of the defence system and defence forces , and in the development of the national defence infrastructure .
National security goals also represent guidelines for the formation of a defence system that will enable the formation and establishment of defence forces capable of achieving the goals .
The process needs to have several feedback or control channels .
3.2.3.2 Current defence planning situation
In addition , there is as yet no clear definition of who is responsible for the individual parts of the defence planning process .
Coherence between the defence budget and the long-term and medium-term goals of the defence system also remains inadequate .
However , significant progress has been made recently in the area of control , especially internal and external auditing .
A substantial reduction has been made in the wartime strength of the SAF from 76,000 in 1999 to around 39,000 members in 2002 .
The transition to a professional army with contractual reserves will enable a further reduction in the size of the wartime strength of the SAF to about 18,000 members when Slovenia joins NATO .
At the end of 2003 the SAF had 24,500 members , of which the professional army numbered 6,376 members , and 1,183 people were employed in the defence part of the MoD .
In 2003 a total of 981 new employees were recruited into the SAF and 186 employees left .
In line with plans , the number of professional soldiers in the SAF is increasing and certain units are being supplemented by members of the contractual reserve .
The transition to a professional army also includes a process of so-called functional professionalisation , implying appropriate ways of thinking , planning and operating .
Within the SAF there are marked personnel disparities in terms of education , rank and age resulting primarily from the rapid development since Slovenia gained independence .
Personnel disparities in terms of education are also evident in the administrative section of the MoD .
Staff retention in the military service is an area that still needs to be developed .
The system of exercising , training and education in the SAF has not yet been fully harmonised with the change in the recruitment method and the changed force structure of the SAF .
The rapidly changing strategic environment , even in the smaller countries , means that ensuring an appropriate level of security and setting up an effective defence system is fast changing from a labour-intensive to a capital-intensive activity .
This shift results from more expensive manpower , more expensive weapons and equipment , increasing international commitments and , in the case of Slovenia , also certain problems and shortcomings from the past .
Establishing adequate defence capabilities therefore also requires substantial funds in Slovenia .
In the last two years we have managed to halt the decline in the proportion of GDP allocated to defence requirements , turn the trend around and secure a satisfactory financial framework sufficient to continue a serious and comprehensive reform of the defence system .
Given the limited nature of the funding , it is highly important that funds be used rationally . This aspect can be improved primarily through better functional organisation of the administrative section of the MoD and the SAF , elimination of unnecessary activities and systems , standardisation of procedures and investment in improving the quality of personnel .
4 Strategic vision to 2015
The strategic vision for the development of the defence system is to form and provide trained , motivated , combat-ready and interoperable armed forces which , using modern doctrine and technology , will be capable of carrying out tasks determined at the national and international level .
At home and abroad the SAF must be recognised as being a trustworthy and innovative force which , under leadership that is change-oriented , clearly led and based on knowledge , experience and positive tradition , will pursue clear strategic goals .
However , for certain sources of threat , such as international terrorism , the warning time will be far shorter , or entirely absent .
The military threat will decline , although there will be a number of major military powers with high-technology weapons at their disposal .
Armed conflict within the wider region may occur , but in a limited form .
The likelihood of military conflict between the major powers having an impact on Slovenia is minimal .
There is a small possibility of renewed conflict in the region , particularly in the case of enduring political instability or poor security conditions .
The international community will continue to be confronted with risks and threats associated with the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and long-range systems ( which may find their way into the hands of global or national terrorist groups ) , but the impact on Slovenia is likely to be very small .
Because of the many mutually linked and interdependent processes of globalisation , the European security environment is constantly changing .
The security risks that might emanate from this are primarily of an international dimension .
Therefore Slovenia too requires a responsive defence system that will adapt appropriately to changes in the strategic environment .
Military defence of the state as we understand it today will in the future go beyond the traditional concept of defence activities within national borders .
Defence activities are increasingly incorporating military crisis management operations which will help preserve international security and peace regardless of international borders .
Slovenia is joining the common fight against terrorism , in which it will support the relevant resolutions of the UN and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe .
As far as weapons of mass destruction are concerned , Slovenia will actively participate in activities and initiatives aimed at preventing WMD proliferation at the regional and global level .
It will ally itself to the policy of WMD control and non-proliferation and support the universality of international multilateral disarmament agreements .
It will formulate and implement a national policy in connection with WMD that will support NATO and EU policy .
As a member of NATO , Slovenia will actively participate in the Mediterranean Dialogue .
It will develop bilateral and multilateral relations in all areas with countries in the region . With the aim of increasing stability and security , Slovenia will make available to the countries of the western Balkans the experience and knowledge it has gained in different areas from the processes involved in acceding to NATO and the EU , as well as other knowledge concerning the administration of modern states .
It will be particularly active in 2005 when it holds the presidency of the OSCE .
4.3 Defence policy of the Republic of Slovenia
4.3.1 Defence planning
The MoD will put in place a comprehensive system of defence planning by the end of 2005 .
The defence planning concept and the new defence planning handbook in the MoD will be prepared by the end of 2004 .
The new system of defence planning will encompass the formation of guidelines by the Minister which will include guidelines for the preparation of the long-term strategic plan , the medium-term defence programme , decisions on major purchases of military equipment and the basis for budget planning .
For the purpose of ensuring more transparent planning , we will elaborate and expand the programme structure which will cover not only SAF functions .
We will put in place improved criteria and methods for measuring results attained in the implementation of the budget , ensure the further development of the analytical and evaluation function in the MoD and formalise the defence resource management processes .
On the basis of the new concept and the defence planning handbook in the MoD , by the end of 2005 we will harmonise the major procurements , equipment and modernisation plans , infrastructure plans , personnel plans and R & D projects with the long-term plans and medium-term defence programmes .
By the end of 2005 the MoD will also set up a system of business planning which will link the strategic goals and tasks with the financial ( budgetary ) and human resources .
For realistic planning on the basis of the results achieved , by the end of 2006 we will develop a system for evaluating results and set up a comprehensive system for reporting on deviations from the plan and progress made towards the achievement of goals .
The comprehensive three-phase defence planning system ( planning-analytical phase , programming phase , and the phase of drawing up the defence budget and business plan ) will link the long-term strategic planning , medium-term programming and preparation of the defence budget and business plan .
The planning system will be based on the recognised PPBS method ( Planning , Programming and Budgeting System ) and on the Business Planning System .
4.3.2 Defence resources and key capabilities
Personnel
od tega bo poklicna sestava štela približno 8.000 pripadnikov , na MO ( obrambno področje ) pa bo zaposleni h približno 1.100 oseb .
In the period 2010 to 2015 the level of employment in the defence system will not increase
It is estimated that in 2015 the SAF will have up to 14,000 members , of which the professional force will number at least 8,500 members while around 1,000 people will be employed in the defence part of the Ministry of Defence ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 :
Personnel projection to 2015
In 2004 a comprehensive personnel and career development plan and a basic concept for enlistment and manning in the SAF with career and contractual members will be drawn up .
Particular attention will also be devoted to changes and adjustments to the system of exercising , training and education in the SAF , which has to be brought into line with the change in the manning method and the changed forces structure of the SAF .
In the administrative section of the MoD a more appropriate awareness also needs to be developed of the need for continuing education and training and a more rational use of available human resources .
In the period 2004-2006 we will redirect attention towards personnel retention in the military service and the issue of personnel leaving the military service , and pay particular attention to the question of professionalisation .
In the period 2006-2015 it will become increasingly difficult to secure a sufficient number of appropriate quality personnel for work in the armed forces .
Slovenia's defence spending is projected to rise as a share of GDP from 1.52 % in 2003 to 2 % in 2008 .
Until 2015 defence spending is then planned to remain at 2 % of GDP .
Achieving the anticipated growth in spending on defence requirements as a percentage of GDP and maintaining the level after 2008 is key to enabling all the reform and development projects to be carried out with the necessary and planned scope and dynamics .
If the agreed and planned funds are not actually made available it will not be possible to carry out the planned changes in the defence system .
The target structure of defence spending is made up of spending on personnel ( approx . 50 %), operations and maintenance ( approx . 30 %) and procurement , construction and development ( approx . 20 %).
Financing of unplanned operations will require additional funds to be secured .
After 2007 , when the law regulating the securing of funds for basic development programmes expires , all the required funds will be secured through the regular defence budget .
The structure of the defence budget and the system of planning and implementing the defence budget will need to be adapted in line with the new programming structure .
Graph 1 shows Slovenian defence expenditure as a proportion of GDP from 1992 to 2015 .
Graph 1 :
Slovenian defence expenditure as a proportion of GDP from 1992 to 2015
For the purpose of carrying out the tasks involved in the implementation of the mission of the defence system the defence resources are combined into capabilities .
sodelovanje v operacijah v podporo miru , izvajanje nacionalne obrambe ter sodelovanje v kolektivni obrambi .
Operational support includes the capability to repair and maintain equipment , accommodation , ensuring the operation of personnel and providing the infrastructure and capabilities necessary to support military operations .
The tasks are personnel support , maintenance of equipment and weapons , operations support and installation and maintenance of infrastructure .
Force development comprises the ability to acquire and train personnel , carry out research , test and procure military equipment and weapons and to form the force structure necessary for ensuring multipurpose combat-capable military forces .
Implementation of policy and strategy comprises the ability to formulate and implement defence policy and strategy for achieving wider national goals , manage the activities of the ministry and secure appropriate defence advice .
The tasks are to provide defence advice for the executive and legislative authorities , development of defence policy and planning , implementation of international agreements in the defence field , management of the defence system , formation of the defence culture , provision of public information and promoting and developing Slovenian values in the defence field .
As far as the planning of capabilities is concerned the following aspects need to be taken into consideration :
they must have an optimal relationship between the combat part and support , with appropriate reserves for personnel rotation and appropriate stocks of consumable stores .
By the end of 2012 the SAF must be capable of forming a battalion combat group with a high level of readiness for operational use and able to be deployed in international operations with a permanent rotation capability .
5 Slovenian Armed Forces
5.1 Purpose of the SAF
The purpose of the defence system , including the SAF as part of it , is to deter an attack on the state and to defend the independence , inviolability and integrity of the state and its national interests .
contributing militarily to international peace and stability
assisting other governmental agencies and public institutions in ensuring the security and well-being of Slovenia's citizens .
5.2 Tasks of the SAF
The missions of the SAF are the basis for its main tasks which are further divided into derived tasks :
National military defence operations :
monitoring , control and protection of land , sea and air space and defence of national territory .
Military contribution to international peace , security and stability :
Defence diplomacy :
bilateral and multilateral co-operation .
o Building security and trust , supervision of armaments and prevention of the spread of weapons of mass destruction :
o Crisis response operations :
preventive diplomacy , conflict prevention and peacekeeping , peace enforcement , peace building , humanitarian assistance in the frame of bilateral and multilateral co-operation , assistance to government organisations and non-governmental organisations in providing humanitarian assistance , and struggle against international terrorism and other threats to peace .
Support to other state agencies and organisations and to the protection and rescue system in ensuring the safety and prosperity of the citizens of Slovenia .
Participation in protection , rescue and relief tasks in natural and other disasters :
participation in protection of the property and citizens in natural and other disasters , participation in the relief of the consequences of natural and other disasters , participation in extinguishing large-scale fires , participation in the relief of the consequences of NBC contamination , and participation in the evacuation and rescue operations for the civilian population in natural and other disasters .
o Co-operation with the police force in exercising the tasks in their field of work :
participation in the protection of the national border , participation in the management of large and illegal migration flows and participation in the prevention and combating of terrorism .
o Search and rescue operations on land , sea and air .
o Support to scientific research and technology development activities in the defence area :
o Evacuation of Slovenian citizens abroad in peace-time as well as in crises and war-time .
5.3 Scale and structure of the SAF
Slovenia will have an army whose scale and structure will enable it to carry out its tasks .
Force Command will be trained for operational planning at the combined level and , as the operational command of the SAF , will be connected to the operational commands of the Alliance .
The SAF will continue to be organised as a unified army not divided into services .
In cooperation with allies , the SAF will develop the necessary capabilities for the implementation of the whole range of military ground force tasks .
The conduct of ground force operations requires forces that are deployable , mobile , adequately protected , provided with fire support , well equipped and well trained .
For these purposes , the SAF will be composed of balanced and structured units that will be able to conduct combined tactical combat operations at the brigade level .
The SAF structure will provide for the autonomous deployment or employment of two tactical groups at two different locations without the need for combat support or combat service support from a higher level .
It will also be capable of employing combat multipliers of the command and control ( C2 ) system with added elements .
In addition , the SAF will make available for Alliance requirements the Nuclear Biological and Chemical ( NBC ) battalion and other minor capabilities to be deployed in an agreed time frame .
Combat service support units will be established and equipped for combat manoeuvre and will be adequately protected for the evacuation of specific elements of the tactical group .
Higher level combat materiel maintenance will be provided in particular by combat service support units .
All other ground force units will also be manned by means of the reserve structure and will be organised in a modular manner .
They will be trained to the same standards in flank protection , movement , the protection of key facilities , host nation support for allied units , recovery of losses and the reinforcement of units in combat operations .
In addition , to free up the capabilities of the manoeuvre forces , these units will be the main support component for the civil emergency planning system or the component which cooperates with other governmental and public administration agencies .
In view of the possible threats from the air , the force structure will ensure the necessary conditions for the rapid implementation of decisions made at the political-military level , regardless of the implementation modalities .
The system elements will be compatible and will therefore directly support the gradual integration into the integrated air defence system of the Alliance .
An airbase will be provided with suitable host nation support for Alliance requirements and will conduct the air traffic control of the Republic of Slovenia .
Tactical vertical manoeuvre , as well as tactical group combat support and combat service support will be provided on Slovenian territory .
The capability of the tactical vertical manoeuvre will permit the tactical movement of an infantry company in one sortie .
The SAF will provide for the defence and protection of territorial waters .
The SAF will also ensure safe access and protection of the maritime waterways and the port of Koper .
Together with the Alliance , these capabilities will form a coordination point for defensive activities to protect maritime supply lines and a maritime entry acceptance point for allied forces in transit or operating on Slovenian territory .
The defence of Slovenian territorial waters will also be conducted by means of multipurpose ground combat systems with special emphasis on the rationalisation and uniformity of combat systems .
When required in peacetime , these forces will cooperate with other governmental agencies with specific resources .
The SAF organisation will be divided into combat units , combat support units , combat service support units and C2 support units .
By 2015 the organisational structure of the SAF will allow for the possible modular formation of forces for carrying out tasks with the maximum possible rationalisation of the command structure .
The organisation of forces will primarily take account of the principles of military expertise , efficiency and cost-effectiveness .
Reorganisation of the SAF , integration into the Alliance and the professionalisation of the SAF will require a great deal of effort and a high degree of expertise .
The challenges that the SAF will need to overcome will to a very large degree be connected with ensuring there are sufficient suitable personnel for the implementation of its tasks .
The SAF will give priority to seeking resolutions to these challenges within the Alliance .
Given the size and structure of the SAF , one of the major tasks will be offering career paths to specialists and ensuring an appropriate number of highly trained individuals in extremely specialised areas of activity .
A related issue is the organisation and implementation of highly specialised study programmes and the organisation of training programmes at home and abroad .
This applies in particular to the question of the relationship between material and other forms of motivation .
The size and structure of the future SAF will have to be such as to provide for the implementation of all the required tasks .
This also applies to tasks connected with research , development , the military education system ( including training ) and activities within alliances .
The SAF will need to have a relatively large number of highly trained personnel .
The SAF will face challenges relating to development in areas in which as yet it has not reached the level required by the Alliance in terms of either skills or technologies .
Force mobility and the capability for self-sufficient operation outside national territory will be a demanding task .
5.5 Development assumptions
medium-scale with a company level unit
Concurrent operation and length of operations are important factors in planning the force scale and structure .
The capabilities will enable participation in :
in one large-scale operation with rotation capability for an extended period .
5.6 Key development principles and development of SAF capabilities
Operational capabilities are the means to achieve the operational structure and fulfil the various missions and tasks of the armed forces .
Therefore we must aim to improve those operational capabilities which support the main tasks of the SAF .
These capabilities must meet the needs for national and collective defence and cooperation in other crisis response operations .
The key operational capabilities are the basis for planning the force organisation and structure in the SAF necessary for fulfilling the mission and tasks .
Deployability
is the capability to deploy forces from peacetime location to an area of operations .
Mobility
is the capability to transfer commands and units within the bounds of an area of operations .
is the maintenance of the required level of combat power for as long as necessary to achieve the goal .
will be ensured with the development of an early warning system , with sufficient active and passive protection of people , equipment and infrastructure , with mobility and with effective air defence .
Capability for effective engagement in the battlefield will continue to be maintained in the future .
Weapon effectiveness will be improved with the procurement of new , modern basic weapons and higher capacity and more precise portable and self-propelled systems for combat and combat support .
is based on an organisation which will act in accordance with contemporary doctrine , satisfy national requirements and ensure a national contribution to the Alliance .
5.7 Long-term SAF capabilities 2015
In the long term , the SAF will have capabilities allowing it to effectively perform all tasks of national and collective defence within the Alliance .
The capabilities will correspond to Slovenia's potential and be harmonised within the Alliance .
In addition , the SAF will develop capabilities to work within the commands and bodies of the Alliance , corresponding in size to an extended brigade command .
Development , education and training capabilities of the SAF will be provided by the Doctrine , Development , Education and Training Centre ( DDETC ) .
The SAF will have up to 14,000 personnel , of which a minimum of 8,500 will be professionals .
The SAF will develop three classic motorised battalions and one light mountain battalion .
These units will be the core of the SAF for missions within national borders , as well as in Alliance operations .
Combat support and partial combat service support to these battalions will be provided through capabilities of designated SAF battalions : the artillery battalion , the engineer battalion , the air-defence battalion , the NBC battalion and the military police battalion .
Combat service support capabilities for the entire SAF will be organised in a regiment-level logistics centre , and also in the mobile logistics battalion , military medical unit , the air-base , Military Territorial Commands ( MTCs ) and the helicopter battalion of the SAF .
Sea capabilities will be provided through the SAF maritime unit .
Command support capabilities will be provided through the capabilities of a communications battalion , air-space control battalion , and intelligence and reconnaissance battalion .
These capabilities will be in direct operational contact with comparable capabilities in the Alliance .
Figure 1 shows the SAF capabilities in 2015 .
Figure
5.8 Capabilities and envisaged structure of the SAF in 2010
By 2010 the SAF will develop most of the capabilities planned for the period until 2015 .
They will be organised under the leadership of the General Staff of the SAF within the Force Command .
The DDETC will be directly subordinate to the General Staff .
The General Staff , Force Command and the DDETC will have appropriate support units for their own operations .
In addition , the DDETC will also incorporate a Basic Training Centre , a Combat Training Centre and a SAF Sports Unit .
Training of branches and specialisations will generally be carried out in the training units of the branches , located as a rule with the branch units of the SAF .
The following units will be subordinated to the Force Command : autonomous intelligence and reconnaissance units , autonomous units for air traffic and control of air space , communications and information technology units with corresponding linkages to the Alliance .
All these units will be of battalion level .
The logistics centre will combine the capabilities of a non-deployable heavy logistics SAF battalion , MTCs and units , the military medical service and the air base .
Medical care will be carried out by the SAF medical unit .
In addition to employment medicine and the medical care of SAF personnel , the medical service will provide for the professional development and functioning of medical and veterinary care , in particular ROLE 1 in battalions and ROLE 2 for the whole SAF structure .
The SAF air base will serve as the national military airport for SAF needs and , if so decided , for the Alliance .
Airport services and capabilities will be provided to enable the airport to operate in all weather conditions .
MTCs will perform the following tasks : territorial control , partial protection of vital infrastructure , territorial logistics and the functioning of the majority of the SAF military infrastructure except for the central training site .
An important task of the MTCs will be the comprehensive care of SAF personnel and their families .
The key capabilities of the SAF , such as deployability , mobility , sustainability , timely availability of forces , survivability and protection , combat effectiveness , an effective system of command and control and communications , effective intelligence support , and interoperability and compatibility , can be achieved with rational and comprehensively financed equipping and modernisation programmes .
In the development of the SAF , a balance must be secured between rushing to embrace the technology of the future and improving existing technology .
Slovenian soldiers must be equipped and trained to fight with state-of-the art weapons systems .
For this purpose the following programmes will be developed :
Individual combatant
Fire support
Intelligence support and electronic warfare
Transport
Logistics
Combat medical care and medical evacuation
Training
5.10 Key development challenges and priorities
At the same time we will have to stick very precisely to the priorities and if the circumstance or available resources change then we must only retain and develop high-priority capabilities and suspend or even cancel development of lower-priority capabilities .
Accurate monitoring of the realisation of goals will therefore be required , with corrective decisions taken where necessary , and at least twice a year .
Monitoring the development of priority capabilities must be the most important task of top military management .
In addition , special attention will need to be paid to group training , including combat use of weapons systems .
The principle of development of an individual capability must be based on a " package approach " with which we will also ensure realisation of all indirect and related capabilities .
With the achievement of final operational capability , for example of an SAF motorised infantry battalion , it will be necessary to ensure implementation of all the equipment and weapons programmes in the area of combat systems , individual and collective protection , communications and information , logistics and so on , as well as non-material capabilities too .
Synchronisation of all the procedures will be a tremendous challenge for the SAF and the MoD .
The organisational structure of the SAF will need to ensure an adequate C2 structure in specific fields ( air operations ) so as to guarantee the required level of operability of the national system and its interoperability and functioning within the Allied system .
The aforementioned critical areas represent at the same time the biggest challenges in terms of both organisation and expertise .
Training and motivation remains one of the most important areas .
Priorities will be determined within planning cycles .
Highest priority in the reform plans will be given to tasks ( and units ) connected with the following areas :
providing individual and group military education training systems ( with particular emphasis on group combat exercises ) .
2. High priority :
providing appropriate logistical and health ( including medical ) care
6.1 Purpose
In Slovenia we are developing civil defence together with military defence as part of the defence system .
The purpose of civil defence is to provide a rapid , flexible and effective counter to various forms of threat to national security in the fields of politics , economics , media information and values in an emergency , war or crisis .
Slovenia understands the term civil defence to mean the entirety of measures and activities by governmental agencies , local authorities , commercial undertakings , institutes , other organisations and citizens which , with non-military means and methods , support and supplement the military defence of the state , ensure the functioning of authority in time of war and ensure the supply , protection and survival of the population .
With Slovenia joining the EU and NATO the tasks of civil defence will be expanded ( e.g. Host Nation Support for cooperation in crisis relief operations ) .
Slovenia has not yet developed a comprehensive crisis management system
In this sense fairly well elaborated solutions are contained in the defence plans and the civil protection and disaster relief plans , which can also be applied in the case of asymmetric threats .
The foundations for the formation of a comprehensive crisis management system were only laid down with the national security strategy and defence strategy , and for the area of civil defence also with the civil defence doctrine .
A crisis management handbook will define in detail the purpose , tasks , responsible bodies and the procedures of crisis management .
Certain regulatory , organisational and other solutions will also need to be supplemented .
6.2 Tasks
The tasks of civil defence are :
to preserve the functioning of authority
to preserve the functioning of economic and other activities of importance for defence and people's vital interests and work
Civil defence contributes to the safeguarding of vital and strategic interests and the goals of Slovenia's national security policy by planning and carrying out measures to preserve the continuity of authority , measures to ensure the functional capability of the Slovenian economy and psychological defence measures in the event of a war or state of emergency or a crisis situation .
Given that one of the key goals of national security is to preserve peace and stability , a significant part of the tasks of Slovenia's civil defence is linked to the participation of civil defence in international efforts to preserve peace and stability .
These tasks are expressed in the demand for society as a whole to strengthen its ability to prevent and manage various crises at all levels which could lead to an emergency if they were to deteriorate .
6.2.1 Civil defence
Civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia , unlike the SAF , civil protection and the police force , is not comprised of separately organised forces but involves a range of tasks and activities by governmental agencies and certain companies and institutions .
The Slovenian government has the central role in the preparation , administration and management of civil defence .
Within the scope of their competencies the ministries are responsible for the level of preparations and for the activities of companies and other organisations in a state of emergency or war and in crisis situations .
The six most important government services and 11 companies and institutions whose activities the government considers to be of particular importance for defence are also included in the civil defence preparations ( Figure 2 ) .
In accordance with the law the National Assembly may also impose certain tasks on the police during a state of emergency .
Figure 2 :
Organisation of the civil defence of the Republic of Slovenia
6.2.2 Crisis management
As it prepares to join international security and defence integrations , Slovenia is rapidly redirecting its civil defence towards crisis management , in line with the established practice in the member states of the EU and NATO .
In the event of a crisis , the governmental agencies act in accordance with their peacetime organisation and competencies .
The setting up of such agencies at government level , in ministries , in the area of psychological defence and possibly also in other bodies , is also envisaged in the civil defence doctrine .
Organisation of crisis management in the Republic of Slovenia
The organisational and other conditions for the work of the NSC will need to be improved .
The purpose and tasks in this area will not change , but emphasis will be given to redirecting the focus of civil defence tasks towards crisis control and its integration into a comprehensive crisis management system .
The area of crisis management is not systemically or comprehensively regulated because the regulations in force only lay down tasks relating to a state of emergency or war .
Amendments to the regulations will lay down the obligation of the bodies responsible for preparing civil defence to set out crisis management measures in their defence plans .
In this process the solutions will derive partly from the crisis management procedures and mechanisms and civil crisis planning in force within NATO and the EU.
The concept of a crisis will be limited to phenomena caused , as a rule , by man and which if they were to spread could lead to a state of emergency .
6.4 Key development principles
The national security strategy , the defence strategy and the civil defence doctrine determine that the civil defence tasks are planned for operation in a state of emergency , war or crisis .
This provides the guidelines for expanding the tasks and competencies of civil defence to crisis management , which will need to be laid down operationally in regulations .
the principle of flexibility , which ensures that the system of civil defence and crisis management will adapt rapidly and operate effectively in all circumstance regardless of the extent of the situation .
Civil defence cooperation in international operations and in peace support operations will be developed in line with the following principles :
the principle of interoperability , which means that the preparation and implementation of tasks in this field must be carried out in such a way that successful cooperation with the civil defence capabilities of other countries participating in international peacekeeping activities can be ensured .
The strategic development vision of civil defence and crisis management is to form a system that will be capable of responding to the challenges of the future .
This period will be characterised by a growing complexity of social systems and increasing vulnerability and sensitivity .
Although the military threat will decline further , other dangers will increase . These include terrorism , the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , environmental destruction and the potential for economic or financial disturbances .
The emphasis here will be on preventive measures and unified activities within the international community .
The programme to establish the civil defence doctrine will be implemented by 2010 .
Civil defence , together with the SAF , the system of protection against natural and other disasters and the security system , will be connected in a functional sense to the crisis management system at the national level , which will not change the functional operation of these systems .
6.5 Modernisation
The achievement of the key development goals is linked to modernisation .
This relates primarily to the area of information technology and administrative communications , which will need to be technologically modernised , and the development of appropriate software to facilitate the work and enable faster decision-making , thereby contributing to improved efficiency .
6.6 Key development challenges
The development of civil defence and crisis management may be limited by the fact that the concepts of crisis and crisis management are not defined in the constitution or law .
Therefore only situations which could lead to a state of emergency if they were to expand or deteriorate should be defined as a crisis .
7 Intelligence and security activities
7.1 Purpose
Intelligence , counterintelligence and security tasks in the defence field are carried out by the Intelligence and Security Service ( ISS ) of the Ministry of Defence .
Information gathered in carrying out intelligence , counterintelligence and security tasks provides the basis for analytical and operational assessments , staff security tasks in the armed forces , production of plans for the use of the armed forces , implementation of other defence preparations and for planning defence measures .
7.2 Tasks
Intelligence and counterintelligence tasks comprise gathering , documenting and analysing information of importance for national defence interests or for safeguarding such information , and in particular :
The security tasks in the defence field are :
directing the work of the military police in the performance of certain security tasks .
7.3 Planning assumptions
Timely planning and implementation of measures to preserve and strengthen both national and international security require an effective system of early detection and warning of potential risks and threats to be set up .
7.4 Key development principles
Development will be based on the following principles :
providing a friendly working environment for employees to encourage independence , creativity and responsibility .
7.5 Modernisation
The modernisation of intelligence and security activities will be directed towards :
procurement of modern technical equipment for data gathering , analysis , evaluation , storage , protection and dissemination as and when required .
The two areas are linked and to a large degree mutually dependent .
The ultimate goal is to maximise digitalisation of the work process and achieve the highest possible level of security of the work .
Ensuring suitable premises for the requirements of the ISS is an urgent matter .
7.6 Key development challenges
Joining NATO and the EU , the transition to a professional army with contractual reserves and the setting up of a national crisis management system also represent important substantive changes for the intelligence , counterintelligence and security activities of the defence system .
Intelligence activities for identifying processes which could threaten national defence interests will become increasingly important , particularly for small countries with limited resources such as Slovenia .
Therefore they must enable timely and accurate forecasting of the occurrence and development of phenomena and processes related to security and appropriate measures to be taken , in particular with the aim of preventing or restricting such phenomena and processes .
8.1 Purpose
The basic purpose of logistics is to ensure the availability ( and operation ) of military capabilities ( force movement and maintenance ) .
And from the point of view of cohesion with the other subsystems of the defence system , the logistics situation is always also a result of , and a response to , the state of development ( structure , organisation and processes ) of the other subsystems .
This means that through strategic planning and implementation of tasks in logistics we can substantially improve the efficiency of the overall defence system .
The logistics system must ensure comprehensive and effective implementation of logistical functions :
management of technical materiel over the whole life cycle ( development , procurement , use , maintenance , write-off and decommissioning )
supply ( food , ammunition , fuel , other materiel ) and warehousing
maintenance of technical materiel and infrastructure
procurement in the strict sense - carrying out procurement procedures , concluding contracts and monitoring their fulfilment
budget management and implementation of financial functions .
8.3 Key challenges
The logistics system operates within the wider security and political environment ( NATO , EU ) as well as in the internal environment of the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia ( organisation of processes , development of the SAF ) .
As Slovenia enters the Euro-Atlantic integrations the structure , scale and mission of the armed forces are changing , and so too are the decision-making processes within the defence planning system .
Logistical solutions need to be formulated in connection with the current solutions and development orientations of the other subsystems of the defence system .
The challenge for the logistics system is therefore to develop alternative approaches and strategies for forming ( or transforming ) the logistics system with regard to the proposed changes in the other subsystems of the defence system .
8.4 Planning assumptions and key development principles
The starting point for the transformation of the logistics system will be the defining of a strategy for managing the transformation of the system , but not the final ideal system model .
an integrated systemic-procedural approach ( Life Cycle Management ) , the essence of which is that the defence system adopts the concept and principles of " life cycle management " and establishes it as the basic concept for the organisation and operation of the logistics system .
a functional-structural approach of " defining and dividing the key logistical functions " , the basis of which is to divide logistics into so-called production logistics ( acquisition logistics ) and consumer logistics ( operational logistics ) ( NATO Logistics Handbook ) .
9.1 Purpose
The Communications and Information System of the MoD ensures communications and information services on a priority basis to two large user groups - the administrative section of the MoD and the SAF .
For the Communications and Information System to meet these requirements it must , at the planning stage already , be designed so as to be safe , strong and reliable , with high availability , expandability and upgradeability , standardised and interoperable .
The management of the system must be logically centralised and multi-layered but physically distributed .
To an appropriate extent the Communications and Information System of the MoD is connected to the subsystem for the requirements of civil protection and disaster relief for which the Civil Protection and Disaster Relief Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible .
The Communications and Information System of the MoD and the SAF must provide information services for all the key defence and military functions , and in particular NATO-comparable information support for planning and implementation of military operations .
One of the key information subsystems for planning and implementation of military operations is the C3I subsystem .
The administrative section of the MoD and the SAF have different development dynamics , range of information service requirements and methods of using them .
In order for the planning , introduction , use and maintenance of communications and information services and the associated infrastructure to be congruent and cost effective the principles of interoperability at the national defence system level must be taken into account when key decisions are made , including interoperability with international integrations , not just at the level of an individual office , sector , constituent body or command .
Although care is taken to treat the key communications and information services in a balanced manner , in places there are noticeable differences between the administrative section of the MoD and the SAF in as much as the first group of users has a wide range of applied solutions at its disposal and weak mobility , while the SAF already has mobility among certain key groups of users , but with a severely limited range of NATO-comparable applied solutions .
The key challenges are :
Despite the mass of regulatory documents and recommendations , management of information projects is still unconnected , administratively demanding and also labour intensive because of the low level of automation .
NATO is moving towards the procurement and use of technical systems that are available on the open market because such equipment is easier and cheaper to upgrade and has a longer operational use .
The MoD has at its disposal some of the key know-how in this field and some experience of long-term cooperation with commercial organisations , and it wishes to continue this practice on a larger scale .
The know-how and experience that the MoD has gathered during this time is partly comparable with that of NATO members because the equipment and know-how are available in the marketplace .
However , we lack experience of intensive and reliable use of such equipment in war conditions .
In order for our defence system to strengthen contact with technologically advanced and organisationally efficient defence systems it makes sense for the MoD to establish permanent and intensive cooperation with the relevant NATO committees and commissions operating in the area of communications and information systems .
The MoD should cooperate with NATO in the area of communications and information systems on a priority and permanent basis and this can later serve as a reference model for cooperation with NATO in other areas too .
The system increases the combat capability of units by substantially increasing awareness of the battlefield situation , shortening the required decision-making time and improving use of available capabilities .
The requirements in terms of substantive , time-related , procedural and functional coordination of data generated or required by individual groups of communications and information services and applications in the defence systems are so great that they can only rationally be provided with powerful communications and information technology .
As a rule these capabilities are redundant , but they are concentrated only in pairs of locations which are extremely well protected and maintained .
Together with other users of these communications and information services they provide the input data .
A major advantage of this type of organisation is that units share data and so in a very short time can set up a high level of interoperability , while commanders have an overall view of the battlefield and the possibility to react in near real time .
Even the smallest military units need communications and information services which for their operation use high performance communications and information technology .
If these units were to attempt to achieve self-sufficiency , the quantity and price of this information equipment would grow beyond all reasonable bounds , and coordination between communications and information services would become an almost unsolvable problem .
Because even the smallest units need excellent communications and information support , a rational solution is to centralise the communications and information equipment for applied processing , which is generally stationary , and to have a high level of distributiveness , mobility and redundancy of communications capacities for access to these services .
A functional C3I subsystem is required with all the associated communications ( in particular the mobile component ) , information and organisational infrastructure meeting all the key requirements of the SAF for national defence as well as the NATO criteria of interoperability for cooperation in the system of collective defence and in peacekeeping operations .
The system must enable multiple redundant use of civil communications capacities ( including international and satellite capacities ) , but which for the subsystem managers are transparent and enable dynamic and flexible allocation of capacities and information services to individual groups of users depending on their current requirements or tasks .
The subsystem must enable a transition to a situation where it becomes the main management and control system of all the key communications capacities in the national defence system .
The C3I subsystem is still only partly intended for provision of information services for SAF requirements
10.1 Purpose
The basic goal of human resource management is to ensure the development and implementation of individual career development , raise the level of specialist education and training and ensure employee loyalty and responsibility to the national security system and , in particular , the defence system .
10.2 Scale and structure of human resources
The active component of the SAF , numbering 6,376 employees , comprises 1,557 ( 24.4 %) officers , 2,074 ( 32.5 %) junior officers , 1,968 ( 30.9 %) professional soldiers and 777 ( 13.2 %) civilian personnel .
In the SAF the number of employees will increase to 6,950 in 2004 and to 7,350 in 2005 .
This means an increase of almost 600 in the number of employees in the SAF in 2004 and a further 400 in 2005 .
The ratio of officers , junior officers and soldiers in the SAF is inappropriate , and there are also personnel disparities in terms of education , age and rank .
The inappropriate ratio of the numbers of officers , junior officers and soldiers results from the reduction in the size of the reserve force of the SAF in recent years and the ending of the conscript system .
amendments to the Defence Act
measures determined in accordance with the strategy for the further development of the Slovenian public sector .
Discussions are also in progress to find other solutions involving cooperation and staff transfers between agencies .
The MoD has 1,592 employees who do not have the appropriate level of education , of whom 1,247 are in the SAF .
Of the total of 1,592 , some 334 have signed contracts with the ministry for obtaining the appropriate level .
According to unofficial figures , a further 150 people are also taking courses to obtain the required level of education but have not signed education contracts with the ministry .
For a certain number of employees the regulations allow the lack of appropriate education level to be overlooked ( e.g. 289 military personnel pursuant to the 1995 Defence Act ) .
A planned personnel policy has been in place since 2002 which envisages employment only of soldiers and students with grants who we are obliged to take on at the end of a period of study in accordance with their contracts .
In this way we achieved a change in the overall structure in the period between 31 December 2002 and 31 October 2003 , with the share of soldiers rising by 6.5 % and the share of officers falling by 4.5 %.
10.3 Human resource development
The development vision in the area of human resources is to create a comprehensive , modern , integrated , transparent , successful and effective system which will be strategically designed in line with human resource and human capital management and will enable the right people to be allocated to the right jobs at the right time .
The main advantages of the existing personnel function of the MoD are the system and procedural stability of the individual sub-functions , enabling the personnel function to be effectively upgraded and further developed .
The main weaknesses in the ministry's existing personnel function lie in an excessive administrative orientation and an inadequate professional , developmental , research , scientific , coordinating and , above all , strategic orientation .
The personnel function itself is oriented strictly towards narrow staffing but there is no systematic and comprehensive personnel development .
The basic principles underlying this process are intensive reorganisation and restructuring of personnel .
The danger is that the modernisation of the personnel function will be too slow , which would increase the inefficiency and lack of transparency in the staffing system .
And this could have long-term consequences , particularly in terms of a negative impact on staff motivation .
The existing , traditional organisation of the personnel function will be transformed by the end of 2004 .
A system of strategic planning for human resource management will be established and a personnel policy defined which will enable a transparent personnel development model to be comprehensively established .
The focus will be on ensuring and setting out clear guidelines and methodological and ( substantive ) expert solutions for all organisational units of the MoD and the constituent bodies within the ministry .
Priority will be given to establishing a professional army and rationalising the functioning of the system as a whole .
Effective strategic personnel planning will require a combining of the operational and tactical levels of the personnel function which are carried out in individual segments .
In this context personnel activities need to be homogenised and integrated between the Organisation and Personnel Office , the Defence Policy Office and the SAF .
10.5 Overall development of human resources and human capital
As a link between the actual capacities and needs of the system , the individual will influence career development on the basis of annual appraisal interviews and evaluations .
By the end of 2004 the following measures will be undertaken for all organisational units in the MoD and the constituent bodies within the ministry :
the key concepts of the CAF excellence model and the IP personnel standard will be introduced in the area of personnel development
comprehensive upgrading of the competencies of all employees ( know-how , skills , experience , abilities , value , loyalty , responsibility , satisfaction , responsiveness to change and so on ) with regard to the current and envisaged needs of the ministry
management and measurement of the organisational culture of all the organisational units of the MoD and the constituent bodies within the ministry will be introduced .
11.1 Characteristics
The current organisational structure of the administrative section of the MoD is based on three directorates and a Secretariat of the Secretary General :
1. Secretariat of the Secretary General with the following organisational units :
Organisation and Personnel Office
General Affairs Office
Publications Office
Defence Policy Directorate with the following organisational units :
International Cooperation Sector
Information and Communications Sector
Defence Administrations
Logistics Directorate with the following organisational units :
Public Procurement Service
Standardisation and Codification Service
Accounts Sector
Directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence are :
Intelligence and Security Service
Internal Auditing Service
Pursuant to the Defence Act and the State Administration Act the following operate as constituent bodies within the ministry :
Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection Against Natural and Other Disasters , and branch offices .
Regulations introduced in 2003 relating to the public sector require the relevant bodies to prepare new acts on internal organisation and job classification , which in substance involve merely a harmonisation with the provisions of the new legislation .
Under the new acts the main processes in the ministry are carried out within directorates which have replaced the existing offices .
There is a possibility of them being introduced in the next phase of reorganisation after 2004 .
An analysis of processes and requirements will determine the new organisational structure of the ministry and its constituent bodies .
The success of the new organisational solutions will depend primarily on the division of work between the constituent bodies , the administrative section of the MoD and the SAF .
The analysis will also influence decisions in connection with the changed competencies relating to the implementation of integration tasks now arising in an identical form , decentralised or repeatedly , at different organisational levels and in different organisational units of the ministry .
11.2 Future
Depending on how appropriate the organisational structure is , it can be used to accelerate or hinder the implementation of strategic and operational goals .
The organisational structure must ensure optimum organisation of activities , the shortest possible hierarchical management scale , mission fulfilment , appropriate control and education and training for future tasks .
A characteristic feature of modern organisational structures is that they are becoming less and less permanent ( and increasingly flexible ) , and operating in unaltered form for relatively short periods of time .
Changes in the organisational structure therefore enable faster and more effective adjustment to new requirements and new environments .
The transformation of the security environment and Slovenia's joining of international security-defence and economic integrations also dictate the need for changes in the organisational structure of the MoD and the SAF .
The key reasons are :
a reduction in the military threat and the consequent abandonment of the concept of total defence
a reduction in the size of the wartime strength of the SAF
changes to the manning method in the SAF
inclusion in NATO and the EU
This is still almost identical to the basic organisational structure of the MoD in the 1990s , which is becoming increasingly less effective and increasingly oriented towards serving its own purposes .
Thus the basic goal underlying the changing of the MoD's organisational structure is to increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of its activities .
A gradual process of reorganisation means a sequence of changes in the organisational structure of the MoD and the SAF in accordance with predetermined priorities , with priority given to processes , or implementers of processes and sub-processes , which ensure the implementation of key tasks or which require minimum intervention in the existing structure while achieving substantial and immediate effects .
Gradually by 2015 the MoD needs to put in place the optimum organisational structure which will derive from its mission and be based on functions and ( business ) processes defined in detail .
This process must take account of the availability of human and financial resources , which in all likelihood also means combining certain individual functions , especially business functions .
This defence goal is divided into further tasks :
to complete the reform of the defence administration and integration of all administrative tasks , professional tasks and business functions in MoD and SAF by 2008
to establish integrated civil-military structures in the fields of intelligence and security , communications and information , protocol and public relations by 2006 .
11.3 Administrative territorial organisation
For the purpose of carrying out defence-related administrative and specialist tasks in certain urban and geographically linked regions the MoD has set up defence administrations which , until recently , carried out tasks related to the defence system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters , and headed administrative procedures connected with the exercise of the rights and duties of citizens concerning the implementation of military , work and material duties and duties in connection with civil protection and disaster relief .
In 2002 the activities to transform the administrative territorial organisation of the MoD continued with the following essential conditions having been met :
and secondly , the introduction of the defence and protection duties information system enabled processing of data in records of military , work and material duty and civil protection and disaster relief duties regardless of location .
With the change to the manning system in the SAF and the gradual abandonment of individual elements of military duty in peacetime , as well as the impending membership of NATO , appropriate organisational and personnel measures also had to be taken in the defence administrations in order to adapt to the new circumstances .
However , when Slovenia joins NATO the emphasis will be on carrying out Host Nation Support tasks .
In accordance with the newly adopted regulations their tasks are oriented primarily towards cooperation in SAF recruitment procedures .
They have begun identifying candidates for contractual military service in the reserve force of the SAF and for voluntary military service .
The new tasks require permanent monitoring of the implementation and ongoing adaptation of the organisational structure and staff occupancy in the defence administrations .
Taking into account the age and education structure of the employees in the defence administrations we will devote particular attention to lowering the average age and improving the education structure of employees and to their continuing training for carrying out specific tasks .
12 Conclusions
Progress is evident in the professionalisation of the SAF and the rationalisation of the command structure .
The long-term force structure has been determined and a number of important steps have been taken towards achieving the target structure .
The tasks of the SAF are clear , and they need to be implemented .
Civil emergency planning and crisis management will be comprehensively regulated and the key elements of this system will be established and connected at the national level .
We will thoroughly analyse the processes and functions in the defence system and set up an organisational structure of the MoD modelled on modern defence systems which will enable a rationalisation and optimisation of the implementation of processes and functions .
We will rationalise the personnel structure and put in place an effective career system .
We will gradually resolve the problem of excess staff and insufficiently qualified employees .
We will develop a comprehensive system of military education and training , including appropriate changes in the area of training SAF units for integration into higher Allied formations .
Decisions will be made on partnership with Allies for higher-level exercises .
We will improve the training of civilian personnel , particularly with a view to acquiring the appropriate expertise and capabilities in the area of command and control .
Over the long term there will be improvements in the organisational and other solutions in the security system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters insofar as they link to and supplement the defence system .
REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
1 INTRODUCTION
2 CHANGES IN THE SECURITY ENVIRONMENT
2.1 Changes in threats following the end of the Cold War
2.2 Threats to national security in the areas covered by civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia
2.2.2 Economic subsystem
2.2.3 Media subsystem
2.3 Following sources of thrreat
3 GOALS AND PRINCIPLES OF CIVIL DEFENCE
4 TASKS , JURISDICTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS WITHIN CIVIL DEFENCE
4.1 Tasks of civil defence
4.2 Jurisdictions
4.3 Obligations and responsibilities within civil defence
5 ORGANISATION OF CIVIL DEFENCE
6 ADMINISTRATION AND LEADERSHIP OF CIVIL DEFENCE
7 CIVIL DEFENCE PREPARATIONS FOR EMERGENCIES AND STATES OF WAR , CRISES AND MARKET DISRUPTIONS
7.1 Measures taken by state agencies and agencies of local self-administration for operation during war
7.2 Economic defence
7.2.1 Support for military defence
7.2.2 Other preparations in the area of economic defence
7.3 Psychological defence
7.4 Other non-military forms of defence
8 CONCLUSION
1 INTRODUCTION
820-00/2001-1 of 20 December 2001 ) , taking into account also the provisions of the Doctrine on Protection Against Natural and Other Disasters of the Republic of Slovenia ( hereinafter :
the Doctrine ) .
The Doctrine signifies the realisation of defence strategy because it defines the principles and processes for attaining the goals of national security and defence .
The Doctrine is based on the starting point that military threats to the Republic of Slovenia have decreased , but it is not ruled out that security conditions may , over the course of time , worsen .
In the future , the tasks of civil defence will broaden to include the management of crises in the regional and wider security environment ( hereinafter :
crises ) that cannot be controlled through the ordinary mechanisms of the state and society .
In the area of economic defence the tasks of civil defence also include the prevention and control of perceptible disruptions or scarcities of goods on the market , in accordance with the provisions regulating the prevention of restricting competition ( hereinafter :
market disruptions ) .
The Doctrine takes into account the following fundamental suppositions and demands :
It is necessary to ensure the continual monitoring of conditions , especially sources of threats , and to adapt the measures of civil defence to these ;
Preparations for war remain the most significant task within the framework of civil defence ; however , security conditions are such at the moment that in particular areas of society they do not demand total engagement .
In these areas preparations are carried out only to the most necessary extent , but in such as way that complete preparation can be ensure in a relatively short time ;
It is necessary to plan and carry out civil defence measures in a comprehensive and deliberate fashion in accordance with the circumstances and effectively , taking their effects into consideration as well ;
It is necessary to broaden the content , tasks and preparations of civil defence to the management of crises and market disruptions ;
Mutual harmonisation between the various elements of civil defence and between civil defence and the other components of the national security system must be ensured ;
Civil defence arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia must be comparable to the solutions that apply in this area in other democratic states , especially in the states of the European Union and NATO ; thus , those that respect the state of law and fundamental human rights and freedoms , and limit these in accordance with the constitution only to such an extent and for such a period of time as is absolutely necessary .
2 CHANGES IN THE SECURITY ENVIRONMENT
2.1 Changes in threats following the end of the Cold War
Following the end of the Cold War , the new European security arrangement has been shaped on the basis of fundamental equalities , mutual trust and understanding .
On the other hand , rapid and significant changes have also brought about uncertainty and instability .
It is therefore necessary to support endeavours to build peace and stability and , at the same time , to take into account the possibility of negative developments and a renewal of conflicts .
The interconnectedness of the phenomena cited above demands preventative measures to forestall dangers , and this is possible only through a constant and comprehensive analysis of the circumstances under which it is necessary to seek such solutions , which will be complex and will make possible appropriate and prompt reaction to changes in conditions .
In doing so , many problems at the state level cannot be solved , but must be addressed at the international level .
2.2 Threats to national security in the areas covered by civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia
With its attainment of independence , the Republic of Slovenia decided upon a democratic , multiparty political system .
It strives for the establishment of relations with other states , especially with neighbouring states , that are based on mutual respect and trust and , at the same time , it wishes to be included in regional and world political , economic , security and defence integration as quickly as possible .
Economic growth and stability exert a significant influence on the stability of a political system , and these ensure societal and personal prosperity .
At the same time , certain external factors can have an indirect influence on this , including refugees and migration , the potential danger of terrorism and organised crime .
2.2.2 Economic subsystem
The Slovenian economy , as a small economy , is already sensitive to global economic oscillations in normal circumstances .
On the other hand , the economic opening of the Republic of Slovenia , alongside unquestionable advantages , also introduces certain problems .
These especially concern the change in the economic structure , the continuous reduction of degrees of self-sufficiency in certain areas and significant attachment to and dependence on individual foreign markets .
In the case of a long-term shortage of strategic resources on the global market , in particular petroleum and other strategic raw materials , it can realistically be expected that it would be more difficult for small states to secure these resources than large ones .
A boycott or economic blockade , even though this is unlikely under present circumstances , could have a serious effect on the Slovenian economy .
The deterioration of conditions , instability or a cessation of the peace processes in Southeast Europe could indirectly affect the Slovenian economy as well .
Under such circumstances , a decline in foreign investors and the flight of capital from the state would be expected .
In addition to the direct effects of wartime activities on economic facilities and instruments , as well as infrastructure , distinctively negative economic effects would also be expected , such as changes in the structure of consumption , a reduction of the volume of production for certain goods coupled with an increase in the production of military material , a decline in international trade , decreased buying power for the population , an upset in the equilibrium between supply and demand and , along with this , a tendency for increased prices , a lowering of the value of capital , a decline in investment activities , and so on .
2.2.3 Media subsystem
Slovenia has an appropriate personnel and technical basis for effectively informing the domestic and foreign public , both in the area of print media as well as broadcasting .
This also makes possible the prompt and full notification of the public during emergencies and states of war , crises and market disruptions .
During a war , the enemy would attempt to disable the operation of information and communication systems , as well as means of informing the public - especially in the area of broadcasting - through powerful and organised information warfare and special warfare , including various types of psychological warfare , as well as through military actions directed against facilities . Because of their exposed nature , this would realistically result in great material damage if it were not possible to repel the threat quickly .
In addition , this would also ensure appropriate support from global public opinion .
2.2.4 Values subsystem
The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines fundamental societal values , which are based on democracy , human rights and freedoms , the rule of law , a social market economy and the safeguarding of the identity of the Slovenian nation , while at the same time respecting the rights of national minorities .
During emergencies and states of war , an important task of civil defence is to ensure the conditions for preserving and strengthening Slovenian national identity as well as societal values .
It is therefore necessary :
To achieve a higher degree of adaptation of the civil defence system to changes in the security environment ;
To consistently put into force the responsibility of the competent state agencies for preparing and carrying out civil defence tasks , acknowledging that it is necessary to improve the mechanisms of their management and leadership .
Regardless of the positive development of security conditions in recent times , it is also necessary to take into account the fact that :
The Republic of Slovenia is a potential goal or transit route for a large number of migrants or refugees , which could have serious humanitarian and economic consequences ;
The Republic of Slovenia could become a target of political , economic or military extortion ;
A large part of the Republic of Slovenia could be directly threatened by natural and other disasters in its vicinity or in the country itself .
3 GOALS AND PRINCIPLES OF CIVIL DEFENCE
The strategic goal of civil defence is to ensure the quick , flexible and effective resistance of the Republic of Slovenia to various forms of threats to national security in the areas of politics , the economy , the media and information services , and values during emergencies , states of war , crises and market disruptions .
To achieve this strategic goal , preventative measures and measures in case of emergencies , states of war , crises and market disruptions are being planned within the framework of civil defence .
Measures for cases of emergency , states of war , crises and market disruptions relate in particular to ensuring the operation of the political system , guiding production and consumption , ensuring the most important services and ensuring communication between the Government , the media and the public .
To protect the freedom of action of the Republic of Slovenia in all areas of society and under all conditions , both within the state and in the international community ;
To undertake work and material duty , as well as the carrying out of all elements of military duty , in a timely fashion .
In the area of economic defence , the goals of civil defence are :
To protect the functional capacity of the economy and to ensure the operation of economic and other activities , especially those in the areas of industry , power supply , agriculture , traffic , information science and communications , and health ;
To ensure regular and sufficient supply for the population .
In the area of psychological defence , the goals of civil defence are :
To strengthen the confidence and preparedness of people for the defence of the democratic political system ;
In the area of other non-military forms of defence , the goals of civil defence are :
In the planning of preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures , the following principles are observed :
The principle of responsibility , which means that , for the planning of preparations and the carrying out of measures of civil defence , the same agency is responsible in war as during peace ;
The principle of organisation , which means that the organisation of an agency or an organisation remains the same in an emergency or state of war as during peace ;
The principle of elasticity , which ensures that the civil defence system will quickly adapt and operate effectively under all conditions .
Civil defence measures must proceed from realistically and completely assessed sources of threats to national security in the areas concerning civil defence ;
Work and material duty , as well as the carrying out of entire military duty , are introduced when the development of security conditions points to their further worsening and becoming more acute , as well as when the security of the state is directly threatened because of these conditions ;
Civil defence measures must take into account general domestic and international political , economic and other legal conditions and circumstances ;
In the planning , putting into force and carrying out of civil defence measures it is necessary to proceed from the position that , as a rule , fundamental policy changes in specific areas may not be introduced through them , nor may fundamental political and economic arrangements be curtailed ;
The state intervenes in the economy only to the extent that market mechanisms are not sufficiently effective in forestalling disruptions or if , in the conditions that have arisen , the market economy would bring about a shortage of specific goods on the market or excessively increased prices .
The extent and intensity of intervention by the state must be proportional to the disruptions that have arisen in an individual economic or other activity .
Civil defence measures must be formulated in a way that they will interfere as little as possible in the freedom of economic activity and , at the same time , take into account the effectiveness of the entire economy ( the principle of proportional means ) .
This principle is also applied appropriately in other areas of society ;
In the area of psychological defence it is necessary to direct particular emphasis towards providing active and open information on the necessity of measures by the authorities , because it is only in this way that it is possible to ensure the necessary confidence of the population in the authorities .
These are being expressed in the demand that society as a whole strengthen its ability to prevent and manage crises and market disruptions at all levels .
In this , it is necessary to distribute responsibility for the realisation of tasks between the state , the economy and other activities , as well as civil defence , no matter that this encroaches upon the sphere of civil defence .
The distribution of responsibility and tasks represents an important basis for the future planning of civil defence measures .
4.1 Tasks of civil defence
Civil defence contributes to the realisation of vitally important and strategic interests as well as the goals of the national security policy of the Republic of Slovenia in that , for emergencies and states of war , it plans measures for preserving the continuity of the authorities , measures for safeguarding the freedom of action of the authorities both within the state as well as in the international community , measures for ensuring the functional capability of the Slovenian economy and measures for psychological defence .
One of the key goals of national security is the preservation of peace and stability . Therefore a significant portion of the task of civil defence in the Republic of Slovenia is contributing to international efforts aimed to the achievement of this goal .
To preserve the operation of economic and other activities that are important for defence , and for people's lives and work ;
To ensure that the public at home and abroad is informed , and to stimulate the motivation for carrying our the defence of the state alongside the simultaneous carrying our of psychological defence measures .
4.2 Jurisdictions
Government ) and ministries , are responsible for the organisation of civil defence and the planning of measures for individual tasks of civil defence as well as economic and other activities .
On the other hand , the administration's agencies of territorial organisation , local communities and appointed companies and institutes are responsible for carrying out these measures .
4.3 Obligations and responsibilities within civil defence
On the basis of a decision by the National Assembly , during an emergency or state of war working duty and material duty may be introduced .
The Government puts forth a proposal for the introduction of working duties on the basis of an appraisal of the circumstances in the area of employment , which is prepared by the ministry responsible for labour in cooperation with other ministries .
In the formulation of the proposal for the introduction of working duties it is necessary to take into account that the interest of the economy is that which will first and foremost preserve employment .
State agencies , municipalities and regions , companies , institutes and other organisations that , in accordance with legislation , carry out preparations for civil defence in the case of war may , in order to ensure the uninterrupted execution of their tasks during wartime , propose to the agency responsible for defence an arrangement of necessary workers on the basis of working duties and corresponding material resources on the basis of material obligations .
This primarily concerns material resources under their ownership , and only by way of exception other material resources .
5 ORGANISATION OF CIVIL DEFENCE
For the effective execution of tasks it is necessary to ensure a functional connectedness and harmonisation between economic and other activities defined at individual levels of organisation , and among the activities of civil defence .
This concerns various relations .
In the first place , it concerns the connectedness between the Government , the ministries and Government services , and the territorial organisation of the administration .
The second relation exists between the competent ministries and companies and institutes carrying out activity arising from their responsibilities .
In this , of special importance is the relation between the ministries and those companies , institutes and other organisations whose activity is , according to the decision of the Government , of particular importance for defence , as well as public enterprises and institutes .
The third relation appears especially in the preparations for civil defence and in the carrying out of its tasks between the ministries and the Ministry of Defence , which performs a coordinating function in the area of preparations for civil defence .
It is necessary to ensure an effective harmonisation especially through proper crisis management mechanisms and the inclusion of specialists .
The fourth relation appears between civil defence and military defence .
It is especially important that the jurisdictions and responsibilities among civil defence , other agencies and the Slovenian Armed Forces be clearly delineated , which applies especially to the area of logistics supply for the Slovenian Armed Forces .
The experiences of contemporary wars and crises show that events develop with a great intensity and that conditions change quickly .
This demands quick decision-making from agencies of authority .
The Government holds basic jurisdiction in the management of preparations , organisation and the carrying out of civil defence , and harmonises its organisation and preparations as well as heading the carrying out of civil defence .
As an advisory agency of the Government in the area of civil defence during peacetime , the interdepartmental coordination group for the harmonisation of civil defence preparations , which attends to the harmonisation of basic solutions in the defence plans of the Government and the ministries , harmonises issues from the area of civil defence connected to the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and NATO , and in other forms of international cooperation , formulates proposals for the work programme in the area of civil defence preparations at the state level and handles the most important strategic , doctrine-related and developmental document from the area of civil defence .
An important role in the administration and management of civil defence is also played by the advisory agency for the Government , the council for national security and the state operational defence staff , which ensures the operative harmonisation of civil defence with other subsystems of the national security system .
The ministries manage preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures in activities within their jurisdictions .
To assist the ministers in the decision-making process in the ministries , coordination groups are formed as needed , as crisis management agencies that are comprised of top-level workers and experts from various activities and jurisdictions of the ministry .
As needed , coordinating subgroups can also be formed for economic and psychological defence .
The content of defence plans and defence documents , and those responsible for working them out , is defined by legislation .
In this it is necessary to ensure that these will also be applicable for use in crises as well as market disruptions , and not only in an emergency or state of war .
The number of those responsible for working out defence plans and defence documents will not be increased .
The planning of measures for individual economic and other activities for managing situations in an emergency , a state of war , crises or market disruptions - and especially those that demand continual and comprehensive civil defence preparations - will be based on assessed sources of threats and the results of scientific studies .
For the effective carrying out of the tasks of civil defence , in all phases of the preparation and carrying out of civil defence measures supervision is ensured that , first and foremost , is carried out by the leaders of civil defence that , at the same time , are directly responsible for the state of preparations in the agency or organisation that they head .
The competent ministries , in line with their jurisdiction and as part of expert supervision , also check the carrying out of tasks connected with preparations for civil defence in the agencies of the administration's territorial organisation and in local communities , as well as in companies , institutes and other organisations .
The National Assembly carries out supervision over civil defence directly or through the competent working body , especially when requiring reports and information regarding the status of preparations for civil defence .
The public also has an important supervisory role .
The success of the majority of measures that are planned in the area of civil defence - and , in particular , psychological defence - depends on public confidence .
It is therefore necessary to carry out activities in the civil defence system in a public , transparent , professional and economical manner .
Within the framework of individual components , harmonisation is especially important in the area of economic and psychological defence , as well as in those areas that require a larger number of persons to implement them .
The elements of harmonisation are the selection of proper solutions , a suitable selection of measures and the optimal usage of resources .
The Government and the Ministry of Defence are responsible for the harmonisation of preparations and the carrying out of civil defence measures at the strategic level , and the competent ministries at the level of individual economic and other activities .
In this , there is applied the principle that the ministry whose jurisdiction predominantly encompasses the specific area is responsible for the harmonisation of tasks in a particular area .
The Ministry of Defence carries out the harmonisation of tasks between military and civil defence .
The carrying out of civil defence measures will represent a significant workload for state and municipal administration , because these tasks will , for the most part , have to be carried out in addition to their regular tasks .
Therefore the administration for carrying out these tasks must already be appropriately organised , trained and prepared in peacetime .
It is increasingly necessary to include scientific and research organisations in training , as well as experts from both at home and abroad .
It is necessary to intensify the introduction of contemporary educational methods , which stimulate the participants to active work and problem solving .
In its contents , it is necessary to direct special emphasis to the civil crises management and civil military cooperation , with the goal of ensuring that , before the Republic of Slovenia is included in the NATO Alliance , as many performers as possible in state agencies , as well as in economic and other activities , become both well acquainted and suitably trained regarding these issues .
7 CIVIL DEFENCE PREPARATIONS FOR EMERGENCIES AND STATES OF WAR , CRISES AND MARKET DISRUPTIONS
In the case of a deterioration of security conditions and the possibility of an attack on the Republic of Slovenia , it is necessary to ensure the complete preparedness of all those conducting civil defence for operation in wartime in an adjustment period that cannot be longer that six ( 6 ) months .
This means that , in addition to those activities where preparations for civil defence are carried out as a whole in case of war , it is necessary to ensure complete preparedness for defence in other activities as well , for which the Government shall decide .
It is necessary to give priority to preparations for civil defence in those areas that are of strategic significance for the preservation of the continuity of the authorities , especially for the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces , the preservation of the functional capacity of the economy and the survival of the population , and where it would not be possible to completely carry out preparatory measures in an adjustment period of six months .
These are , especially , preparations in the area of trade , supply , transport , telecommunications , power supply , industrial production , agriculture , health , communal and water management , and culture in work that relates to the protection of cultural heritage .
7.1 Measures taken by state agencies and agencies of local self-administration for operation during war
The basic task in this area , which is not a matter only for civil defence but also for other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia , is the preservation of the independence and sovereignty of the state and ensuring its freedom of operation in the international community .
The Government of the Republic of Slovenia holds the basic tasks in this area , and ministries and other stare agencies hold them in individual economic and other activities in accordance with their jurisdictions .
In connection with the preservation of the continuity of the authorities , civil defence bears the following tasks in particular :
It is therefore already necessary in peacetime to carry out the mutual harmonisation of organisational , personnel , material and other preparations for the operation of individual economic and other activities during an emergency , a state of war , crises and market disruptions .
These preparations must make possible a flexible and adaptable handling both with regard to the organisation and the work of the agencies of authority , and also with regard to the activities for which the specific agencies are responsible .
State agencies and agencies of local self-government must also ensure the continuity of operations if connections with higher or adjacent agencies are broken .
The competent ministries and other state agencies must issue appropriate guidelines for the carrying out of tasks in individual economic and other activities during wartime .
Guidelines and similar content must also be issued for companies , institutes and other organisations whose activity the Government judges to be of particular importance for defence .
The Ministry of Defence's system of administrative links will be modernised and economised .
At the same time , the conditions for secure communication between state agencies will be ensured .
For the effective management of crises as well as market disruptions and managing defence in an emergency or state of war , a national crisis management centre will begin operating at the Ministry of Defence for the needs of the Government , the national security council and , in war , the national operations defence staff as well .
The Ministry of Defence ensures to the most necessary extent the conditions for the operation of the president , the Government and the National Assembly in wartime .
The measures connected with this are planned in an economical fashion and mutually harmonised as part of the defence plan of the Ministry of Defence .
With the participation of civil defence in the international peacekeeping operations , the Republic of Slovenia , as a responsible actor in the international community , contributes to preserving peace and stability in the world in line with its capabilities .
Special attention is thereby directed toward the mutual harmonisation of processes in individual state agencies that participate in peace support operations and with the Slovenian Armed Forces .
Within the framework of this , the tasks , jurisdictions and responsibilities of the various actors in civil defence will be clearly delineated . The ministries and other state agencies will define their areas and tasks , in the realisation of which the Republic of Slovenia may participate with personnel or material sources .
In the cooperation of civil defence in international peacekeeping operations it is necessary to particularly keep in mind the following principles :
The principle of harmonisation , which means that the preparations and carrying out of these activities must be harmonised with the tasks of the actors involved ;
The principle of proportionality , which means that the extent of engagement of civil defence must be proportional to the conditions that have arisen , contingents of other countries and the capability of the Republic of Slovenia to offer assistance ;
The principle of sustainability and continuity , which means that preparations in this area must enable the uninterrupted carrying out of tasks over a longer period of time ;
The principle of adaptability , which means that the carrying out of activities must be planned out in a manner such that they can be rapidly adapted to circumstances that arise ;
The principle of concluding contracts , which means that the engagement of civil defence capacity in such activities , with the exception of state agencies , shall take place on a voluntary basis and , as a rule , through the concluding of appropriate contracts ;
7.2.1.2 Logistic and other support for military defence
From the perspective of civil defence , it is important for the support of military defence to include economic capacity and other factors in the logistic supply of the armed forces - that is , the Slovenian Armed Forces and , following the eventual admission of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO , alliance forces as well .
The tasks and organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces have a significant influence on the planning and carrying out of tasks in civil defence .
A comprehensively and mutually harmonised solution to issues of the logistical supply to the armed forces ensures a more economical use of economic and other capacities of the state and its sources during an emergency , a state of war or crises .
The system for material and health supply for the Slovenian Armed Forces must enable the rapid delivery of necessary sources of these to the armed forces , regardless of the dynamics of the circumstances .
At the same time the system must be sustainable , which means that it must effectively operate throughout the entire period of an emergency , state of war or crisis .
The planned capacities of civil defence will therefore be continuous and give preference to availability for ensuring defensive needs , whereby it will be kept in mind that capacities intended for supply can quickly change in their volume .
In connection with this , necessary organisational , legal and other solutions will be formulated .
In the planning and execution of logistical support for the Slovenian Armed Forces - and , following the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO , to Alliance forces as well - in addition to the principles that apply for the cooperation of civil defence with international peacekeeping operations the following principles will also be observed :
The principle of demonstrating needs , which means that logistic supply is planned and carried out on the basis of demonstrated needs ;
The principle of responsibility , which means that the competent ministries shall be responsible for the realisation of the need for logistic supply , and shall for the realisation of these needs define companies , institutions and other organisations that shall then conclude appropriate contracts with the Ministry of Defence .
Within the framework of the Ministry of Defence , organisational units - in accordance with their responsibilities - are responsible for the planning and realisation of demonstrated needs .
In the Republic of Slovenia economic defence is carried out on the basis of a market economy .
This means that market mechanisms preserving the balance between supply and demand will also operate , to the extent possible , during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions .
Through appropriate measures a reduction of demand or consumption will thus be planned .
The competent state agencies will plan measures for directing supply and demand , such as appeals to economise , restrictions , contingencies of use and , only in extreme cases , the rationing of supplies .
It is therefore necessary to anticipate what are likely to be the least intrusive interventions - and it is only when these , particularly from the perspective of the operation of the market , are no longer workable that it is possible to apply more stringent methods .
In the economic area there have always arisen more important methods of handling various disruptions that affect market supply .
This also demands an appropriate material preparedness from economic defence , particularly from the aspect of appropriate reserves .
At the same time , it is necessary to ensure the constant monitoring of domestic and international conditions , especially in the area of trade and supply .
These articles are of vital significance for supplying the population , the Slovenian Armed Forces , security and other forces and the economy .
It is therefore important that during peacetime the competent ministry develop proper preparations that are harmonised with other ministries .
Priority will be given to goods for basic supply , sources of energy , medicines and medical materials .
Price increases would be expected during an emergency , state of war or market disruptions .
Supply will be most effective if market rules continue to operate in the areas of prices .
It is therefore necessary to plan preparations in order that the state intervene only in certain types of articles that are important for the survival of the population , or if price relations are disturbed to a greater degree .
At the same time , it also is necessary to provide for greater supervision of this area .
7.2.2.2 Traffic
Traffic activity plays an important role in the operation of economic and other activities as well as the regular supply of the population .
It is possible to ensure the import and distribution of goods during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions only through the help of a well organised transport system , especially because the sea and air transportation routes to the Republic of Slovenia are vulnerable .
It will therefore be necessary to increase the degree of mutual harmonisation of solutions for the operation of economic and other activities from the perspective of traffic activity .
In the area of the operation of information communication technologies , measures will be planned to ensure their operation during an emergency , a state of war and market disruptions , both within the country as well as in international trade .
Priority will be given to ensuring the operation of systems for the needs of state agencies , companies , institutes and other organisations whose activity is of particular importance for defence .
Therefore measures will be planned for the protection of all infrastructure facilities in this area and for the protection of programmes and other tools used in this work .
The possibilities for increasing the capacity of warehouses for natural gas are very limited .
The anticipated increase in reserves of petroleum and petroleum derivatives will favourably affect the preparedness of the state for operation under changed circumstances and will represent one of the most important aspects of the materialisation of civil defence in general .
The degree of self-sufficiency in electrical energy and coal is sufficient in peacetime , but in an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions it could be considerably reduced , especially if it were no longer possible to make use of the capacities of the Krško nuclear plant and the Šoštanj thermoelectric plant .
From the aspect of preparation of civil defence , the continued construction of hydroelectric plants is therefore important , the capacities of which would greatly mitigate shortages under such conditions .
To ensure electrical supply to priority users during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions , suitable measures will be planned , such as ensuring electricity to priority users , isolated operations , and similar measures .
Regarding the introduction of restrictions on the supply of electricity , the main responsibility for carrying out this task will be assumed by companies in the electrical industry .
In addition to the cited measures , the competent ministry and electrical industry will also plan the most necessary measures for protecting the system of the electrical industry .
Industry represents an important share of the Slovenian economy , because it creates a large part of net domestic production and employees a large number of workers .
The territorial distribution of industrial production capacities from the perspective of defence is not the most advantageous , because many industrial facilities are located in the broader border area .
The competent agencies will therefore anticipate the necessary measures for ensuring raw materials for industrial production , especially that which is significant from the aspect of defence .
As part of this , on the basis of the needs of the Slovenian Armed Forces and estimated export possibilities , the role and extent of intended production will be defined , in which the basic starting point will be the economic interest of the economy in that kind of production .
Agricultural production is important in order to ensure the regular and sufficient supply of the population , especially during war .
The capacities of the food processing industry enable the processing of the majority of agricultural products produced in the country .
To ensure agricultural production during an emergency , a state of war or market disruptions , the competent ministry will plan necessary measures , especially for ensuring the necessary quantities of seeds , fertilisers and chemical protection for plants , as well as veterinary medicines and instruments .
The tasks in both of these areas will not change during an emergency or state of war , although their extent could increase , particularly during wartime .
The activation and engagement of additional capacities will therefore be planned , including those outside the peacetime purview of public health institutes .
The number , location and capacities of field hospitals will be defined .
Their planned formation will begin ( at least one hospital will be completed annually ) .
Within the framework of the doctrine for the operation of public health services during war conditions , there will also be determined mutual connections and demarcations of jurisdiction , as well as tasks for the planning , organising and ensuring of health care for the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces through public and military health service .
On the one hand , this concerns the formation of basic reserves of medicines and medical instruments as part of the state's reserves of goods and , on the other hand , it is also necessary to carry into effect appropriate measures for the effective conduct of additional tasks for protecting health , especially during wartime .
This means that it is necessary to formulate appropriate minimal reserves of specific medical equipment for the work of health-related capacities beyond their peacetime centres of operation .
The formation of these reserves is also significant from the perspective of major natural and other disasters as well as inclusion in international peacekeeping operations .
7.2.2.7 Communal and water management
The supply of potable water is of strategic significance during wartime .
Therefore the basic task of water management is to plan measures to ensure a constant supply of potable water .
In view of the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is exploiting only about 30 % of its water resources , it is also necessary to plan measures for such conditions for activating additional sources of potable water in a relatively short time .
7.3 Psychological defence
Psychological defence acquires importance in an information society .
A large part of the issues in this area will be resolved through the formation of an expert inter-departmental group that will be comprised of experts from administration , the media and science .
Their tasks will primarily be the study of modern forms of psychological warfare and advising the media .
In the preparations for and the carrying out of psychological defence the following principles will especially be observed :
The principle of harmonisation between those carrying out various tasks ;
The principle of sustainability and uninterrupted operation ;
7.4 Other non-military forms of defence
Through its policy , the state must also formulate conditions for the operation of civil defence during conditions of war and , as needed , direct the carrying out of these forms of defence .
Among these are especially demonstrations , strikes , boycotts , obstructions and other forms of civil disobedience as well as diversions and sabotage .
8 CONCLUSION
On the one hand , the Doctrine represents a concretisation of defence strategy and , on the other hand , it defines the goals , principles and organisation of civil defence as a long-term point of departure for the carrying out of tasks in this area .
For the execution of the Doctrine , the necessary systemic , organisational , legal , material and other conditions will be ensured , of which the most important are ensuring the continual assessment of threats to the security of the Republic of Slovenia in the areas in which civil defence is involved , the formation of a comprehensive crisis management system , the consistent observation of deadlines for the accomplishment of tasks , ensuring financial resources and ensuring the harmonised execution of tasks with other elements of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia , especially with military defence .
The Government will monitor the realisation of this Doctrine and , as needed , will supplement and adjust it in accordance with changes in the security environment .
CENTER FOR MILITARY HISTORY
Author :
Albin Mikulič
September 2003
EUROPE AT THE END OF THE EIGHTIES
After 28 years , the Berlin Wall falls .
One of the most painful periods of post-war German history is over .
Europe in 1990
----- the border between Eastern and Western Europe
The fall of the Berlin Wall is an historical event symbolizing the end of the Cold War .
Germany is reunited .
In Poland , the Solidarnost Trade Union took over . In 1990 , Vaclav Havel , a writer and a fighter for human rights , was appointed the Czech President .
Unlike the velvet revolutions in Hungary , the Czech Republic and Poland , the people's uprising in Romania was extremely cruel .
In Paris , heads of states from 34 member countries of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe signed the Charter of Paris for a New Europe ; this was to help eliminate the post-WWII division of Europe .
In May 1990 , Boris Nikolajevič Yeltsin , who was in favor of rapid and radical political and economic changes , was appointed the first President of the Russian Federation by the Moscow Parliament .
After the political changes in Eastern Europe in 1991 , the military part of the Warsaw Pact was dissolved . A few months later , the political committee of the Eastern defense alliance was also disbanded .
In all former communist countries in Europe , old regimes were replaced with democratic governments .
YUGOSLAVIA AT THE CROSSROADS
Presidents of the former Yugoslav republics : Milan Kučan , Slovenia ; Alia Izetbegović , Bosnia-Herzegovina ; Kiro Gligorov , Macedonia ; Franjo Tuđman , Croatia ; and Slobodan Milošević , Serbia . Momir Bulatović , President of Montenegro , is not pictured .
Pictures of Milošević were widespread in public gatherings in Serbia , and the majority of texts on posters were directed against Slovenian politicians .
A typical day in Kosovo
With the death of historic leaders such as Tito , Kardelj and others who had managed to keep the situation in the former Yugoslavia under control by means of Party policy , the decisive element of the united country was gone .
In the early 80s , severe disagreements among the republics emerged .
The first interethnic disputes broke out between the Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo .
In the Serbian Academy of Science and Art Memorandum in 1986 , a clearly nationalistic program for a Greater Serbia was published .
The principle that all Serbs needed to live in one country put great pressure on all republics with Serbian inhabitants .
Disputes between those who advocated greater autonomy for the republics and those who represented centralist and unitarian movements were increasingly severe .
The situation was made worse by the aggressive statements by the Greater Serbia nationalists led by Slobodan Milošević .
Slovenia was against the movement to overcome problems through centralization and unification of the country .
SLOVENIA , THE TRIAL AGAINST THE FOUR
On 31 May 1988 , on a request by the YPA leadership , the Slovenian State Security Service arrested three journalists who worked for Mladina magazine and a YPA non-commissioned officer , accusing them of the illegal possession of a classified military document .
This trial led to mass demonstrations and to discussions about the jurisdiction of military courts . In addition , the decision made by the Federal Secretariat for the People's Defense that trials in Slovenia could be in the Serbian language caused great dissent .
The Military Court sentenced the four to prison .
The arrest of the four resulted in the establishment of the Human Rights Committee , which had many members under the leadership of Igor Bavčar .
" Nova revija " was first published in the spring of 1987 . A group of people from among the Slovenian intelligentsia ( among others , France Bučar , Tine Hribar , Peter Jambrek , Jože Pučnik and Dimitrij Rupel ) published their contributions to the Slovenian National Program .
The Slovenian Communist Association did not want to comprehend , let alone accept , this fact . Therefore , it used the Socialist Federation ( SZDL ) and the mass media in an attempt to prevent the political functioning of the new opposition organizations .
Upon the establishment of the Social Democrats , it also sought the assistance of the police in preventing new political organizations from becoming political parties within the SZDL .
Jože Pučnik , the emergence of DEMOS , Nova revija , Ljubljana 1996
THE MAY DECLARATION
On 8 May 1989 , the opposition parties introduced to the public the May Declaration , a document which claimed a sovereign Slovenian state and its right to make a free decision on its integration with other countries . On 22 June 1989 , the Slovenian leadership presented the Fundamental Charter , which stated they were still in favor of a Federal Yugoslavia .
The May Declaration , which was called an " Open Session of the RK ZSMS Presidency " for fear it might be prohibited , was read by the poet Tone Pavček .
The movement related to a Greater Serbia was also prevalent in the Yugoslav Communist Association .
Slovenian representatives demanded a debate on actions needed to solve the crisis in Yugoslavia .
Most of the representatives were against this proposal so the Slovenian delegation walked out of the Congress early .
This resulted in the collapse of the Communist Party .
All attempts to continue the Congress failed .
When the Slovenian and Croatian communists decided to support national politics and with the death of Tito , the last obstacles which had maintained an intact Yugoslavia were gone .
Just the YPA was left caught in political intrigues , and its leadership succumbed to the idea of a Greater Serbia .
This was the first act of disobedience by the police to the Federal authorities .
Ljubljana , Kongresni trg , 8 May 1989
A large political gathering at which the May Declaration was introduced .
MULTI-PARTY ELECTIONS IN SLOVENIA
President of the RS Assembly , Dr. France Bučar ( left ) and President of the new Slovenian Government , Lojze Peterle ( right )
Milan Kučan , the newly elected President of the RS Presidency .
Dr. Jože Pučnik , President of DEMOS
The RS Executive Council was elected on 17 May 1990 .
The first multi-party elections were held in Slovenia from 8 to 22 April 1990 , 52 years after the last ones .
This was a key milestone in the creation of the new country .
The democratic opposition won the elections with 54 % of the votes .
At the constitutional meeting of the National Assembly on 17 May 1990 , Dr. France Bučar was elected President .
Along with elections of delegates to the Sociopolitical Chamber , the Chamber of Associated Labor and the Chamber of Communes of the Assembly , there were also elections for the President of the Republic of Slovenia and members of the Presidency .
In the second round of presidential elections , Milan Kučan got 58 % of the votes , thus winning the elections and defeating his rival , Dr. Jože Pučnik .
DISARMAMENT OF THE TERRITORIAL DEFENSE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Commandant , Territorial Defense of the Republic of Slovenia
Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar
The Chief of the Territorial Defense Headquarters of the Republic of Slovenia ( RS TD HQ ) , Major General Drago Ožbolt , signer of the order on the transfer of weapons , ammunition and explosive ordnance to YPA storage sites .
Weapons and ammunition are being moved from the Regional TD HQ
In January 1990 , General Hočevar had already demanded that the subordinate territorial defense headquarters submit data on the quantity and types of weapons in YPA military posts .
Based on the data obtained , an order was issued on 15 May 1990 that weapons , ammunition and explosive ordnance be moved to YPA storage facilities .
The task was supposed to be top secret , and no one in the RS leadership was informed .
Preparations for the confiscation of the weapons were started several months prior to the execution and the confiscation was planned to be carried out so that it would coincide with the end of the mandate of the President of the SFRY , Janez Drnovšek , and the change of government in the Republic of Slovenia .
RESISTANCE AGAINST THE CONFISCATION OF TERRITORIAL DEFENSE WEAPONS
Delo , 21 May 1990
At the very beginning of their mandates , Igor Bavčar , Secretary of Internal Affairs , and Janez Janša , Secretary of National Defense , had to face the problem of the Slovenian territorial defense disarmament .
Immediate action was necessary to stop any further dispersement of weapons to YPA storage sites .
The Slovenian National Assembly
The YPA representative in the RS National Assembly , Colonel Milan Aksentijević , demanded that the order for the transfer of weapons be fully carried out .
He used persuasion and threats to prevent the delegates from adopting measures that would lead to independence .
According to some sources , Aksentijević was part of the " long arm " of the YPA counterintelligence service .
A letter from members of the Slovenske Konjice Regional Territorial Defense HQ requesting immediate action to prevent further confiscation of weapons .
Urged by President Milan Kučan , General Ivan Hočevar , who was also bound by federal legislation to inform the Slovenian Presidency of the transfer of weapons , gave the unconvincing explanation that this was just a precautionary measure .
In the afternoon of 19 May , on a request from the Secretariat of the Republic of Slovenia for National Defense , the RS Presidency sent a telegram to the municipalities advising them to stop surrendering weapons .
By the time the prohibition was issued , approximately 70 % of all weapons had already been moved to YPA storage sites . In addition , five defense authorities at the municipal level had also had their weapons confiscated .
The spontaneous resistance against the illegal confiscation of weapons led to the creation of one of the best organized conspiratorial actions in recent Slovenian history , a project of the National Protection Forces called Manevrska struktura narodne zaščite ( MSNZ ) .
RECONCILIATION IN KOČEVSKI ROG
In order to assure the safety of MSNZ project leaders , certain tricks were necessary , such as false documents for the main MSNZ actors .
In the summer of 1990 , the firm Gorenje developed weapons for short distance combat .
During the same summer , new camouflage uniforms were tested in the Kočevje forests for field training purposes .
In Kočevje , the communist authorities had underground facilities ready to retreat to in case of an emergency or war .
The area , kept under a very strict security regime , extended over 200 square kilometers .
A special commission was appointed headed by Prime Minister Lojze Peterle whose task was to identify what there was on the so-called Maček's territory .
There was also a subcommission appointed headed by Tone Krkovič .
There were two units positioned there , a police logistics unit and a territorial defense protection unit .
Later , it turned out that greater quantities of weapons had been expected to be found .
Gotenica was an important location for the transportation of weapons to MSNZ units in Slovenia .
8 July 1990 , reconciliation in Kočevski Rog
The reconciliation in Kočevski Rog was conducted in front of the mass grave of the members of the homeguard .
In the crowd of over ten thousand people was the President of the Republic , Milan Kučan , and the Archbishop of Ljubljana , Dr. Alojzij Šuštar .
On this occasion , a monument made by Metod Frlic was raised to the victims of postwar killings .
Despite the symbolic ritual , political differences concerning national reconciliation remained .
In the summer of 1990 , intensive intelligence activities were conducted .
Rade Klisarič , a member of KOS ( counterintelligence service ) employed by the territorial defense , was responsible for the collection of data on the YPA .
A round-the-clock control was implemented over all important YPA facilities , movements of units , training of YPA units and activities at the Republic Territorial Defense Headquarters still under the command of Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar .
Timely information was important for the officials at the Republic Secretariat for National Defense and at the Republic Secretariat for Internal Affairs so that they could make appropriate decisions .
Based on the intelligence material gathered , an assessment was made of causes and possibilities for YPA action in Slovenia .
Later , these findings served as a good basis for the drawing up of the Ordinance for the Use of the MSNZ .
THE DECLARATION OF THE SOVEREIGN STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
The declaration of the sovereign Republic of Slovenia
Kočevje Utility Administration
On 23 August 1990 , immediate MSNZ leadership held a meeting in the Kočevje Utility Administration building .
During the meeting , the MSNZ organizational chart was approved and listed the first and last names of the most important organizers as well as the units up to the municipal level .
Secret weapon storage site in the village of Libušnje in the Tolmin municipality
Weapons were hidden in the well ( marked in the picture ) .
They were distributed across the country in the custody of the most reliable individuals .
A decision was made to appoint Tone Krkovič MSNZ Chief .
In the next few days , Igor Bavčar issued decisions appointing all regional MSNZ chiefs who , in turn , issued decisions appointing their assistants and municipal MSNZ chiefs .
As early as the summer of 1990 , the Slovenian National Assembly had started debating legislation pertaining to independence .
In July , the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Declaration on the Sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia .
A timeframe of one year was set for the adoption of the new Slovenian constitution and the establishment of a procedure to determine which federal regulations were no longer valid in Slovenia . In addition , the Slovenian representatives were recalled from the Federal Assembly .
With constitutional changes on 28 September 1990 , the Assembly voided several federal regulations in Slovenia and took over the decision-making process concerning compulsory military service and the command of the RS Territorial Defense .
ORDINANCE ON THE USE OF THE MSNZ
A section of the Ordinance on the Use of the MSNZ
Pristava nad Stično , where important documents were adopted for the further work of the MSNZ .
Territorial defense weapons storage site in Ljubljana
It was often the case that people who worked for the territorial defense and were members of the MSNZ stole weapons owned by the territorial defense and stored in YPA storage sites .
A lot of weapons and ammunition were collected in this manner .
On 7 September 1990 , a meeting which was very important to the future work of the MSNZ was held in Pristava nad Stično .
At the meeting attended by Janez Janša , Igor Bavčar , Tone Krkovič , Vinko Beznik and Jože Kolenc , the existing situation and the measures taken concerning the organization of the MSNZ were analyzed . An overall action plan was finalized .
The meeting in Pristava was an historical one since a document assuring protection for the process of achieving Slovenian independence was approved .
At the regional level , adequate follow-up documents were written , tailor-made for the use of MSNZ units in individual regions .
REBELS WITH A CAUSE
MSNZ ORGANIZATIONAL PRINCIPLES , REPUBLIC LEADERSHIP AND REGIONAL CHIEFS
At the level of the Republic of Slovenia , the MSNZ project was led by Janez Janša and Igor Bavčar . Tone Krkovič was tasked with operational leadership . Vinko Beznik and Jože Kolenc coordinated the activities of the MSNZ organizers and the police ( a special police unit at the regional level ) .
Igor Bavčar also appointed MSNZ chiefs in 13 regions , and they , in turn , appointed chiefs for the municipal MSNZ headquarters in all 62 municipalities .
A Territorial Defense Protection Brigade storage site in Gotenica , from where a lot of weapons and ammunitions for MSNZ units across Slovenia were distributed .
Most of the distributions were conducted at night under the protection of special police units .
THE END OF THE MSNZ PROJECT
The highest national decoration for MSNZ members in recognition of their contribution to Slovenian independence .
Ljubljana , 21 June 2000
It was initiated under special circumstances , during the most sensitive period of the working towards Slovenian independence , and in accordance with real political and military conditions .
If we had not taken the risk at that time , there would probably not be an independent Slovenia today .
Usually , when there is risk involved and people who are willing to take it , the paramount amount of effort is not seen clearly .
Those who were against the risk and against the project are usually the first and loudest in claiming the merit or even in awarding medals to others . This is not unique only to Slovenia or the MSNZ project .
However , such behavior cannot change facts retrospectively . As time goes by , events often become less clear .
Ljubljana , 12 May 2003
Janez Janša
YPA representatives stated that it was only an additional measure to secure the facility .
In reality , it was a » minor strike « , led from Belgrade and carried out by Lieutenant General Ivan Hočevar , who had been removed , and the Commander of the 5th Military District , General Konrad Kolšek .
Initial reaction from Slovenes was very strong , but they calmed down at the news that the headquarters had already been moved to another location under the command of the acting chief Janez Slapar .
In front of the Republic Secretariat for National Defense , Ljubljana
After the YPA military police broke into the abovementioned headquarters on Prežihova street , the police and territorial defense units subordinate to Major Janez Slapar secured all important facilities .
On 19 October 1990 , after a few days of operation on Prežihova street , the RS TD HQ moved to new premises in " Kardelj's Villa " in Tacen .
After inspection of the territorial defense honor guard , the new premises were opened by the RS President , Milan Kučan .
The Federal Secretary of National Defense stated that Slovenia was creating its own armed forces .
In his reply to this statement , Janez Janša , the Republic Secretary of Defense , asked where they were when Serbia changed its constitution and included much more radical provisions .
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE SLOVENIAN ARMED FORCES
Tone Krkovič , Commander of MORiS Special Brigade , reporting to the Acting Chief of the TD HQ , Major Janez Slapar .
Inspection of the formation
Brigade members wore different uniforms depending on their specialty and unit .
Technical equipment
The YPA followed these events with great interest .
After the formation , MORiS members acted out a scenario of an " attack on a building " exercise and proved that they were also trained for special tasks .
17 December 1990 was a cold winter day in Kočevska Reka , and yet it was a special day .
It was marked by an event that had a major impact on the later development of events , brought dramatic changes to the Slovenian nation and helped fulfill a thousand-year-old dream for an independent Slovenian state .
On this day , the MORiS Special Brigade first stood in formation in Kočevska Reka .
The pictures broadcast on TV conveyed a clear message , " All right ! We are here waiting for you !"
MORiS was the first unit in the Slovenian Armed Forces where the word Homeland started with a capital letter .
PLEBISCITE FOR A SOVEREIGN AND INDEPENDENT SLOVENIA
Floods in the Celje area
At the beginning of November , Slovenia was caught in heavy rains .
Floods caused substantial damage in the amount of approximately 9 billion dinars or one fourth of the Slovenian GDP .
The most affected areas were the Savinja Valley and the wider Celje area .
Many families lost all their property , bridges collapsed , there were landslides .
Plebiscite ballot
Not only Slovenians living in Slovenia but also many countrymen abroad voted for an independent Slovenia .
Prešeren's poem , " Zdravljica ( the Toast ) " , set to music by Stanko Premrl , had been the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia since 1987 and became the National Anthem in 1990 .
Celebration in front of the Ljubljana Town Hall
After the plebiscite results were announced on 26 December , Slovenia was on its feet , and most Slovenians celebrated this historical day until late in the night .
All of the republics but Croatia refused this proposal .
The plebiscite was held on 23 December 1990 .
Out of 93.2 % of the voters , 88.5 % were in favor of independence .
In accordance with the law , the decision had to take effect in six months .
As the music of Prešeren's Toast played on 26 December 1990 , the Assembly solemnly announced the plebiscite results .
" PREMIK-91 " EXERCISE
The exercise Premik-91 ( Movement 91 ) was led by the Slovenian Republic Territorial Defense Headquarters .
In the Primorska region , the main effort was on the mobilization and movement of units and in the Dolenjska region the use of assigned units .
The exercise was observed by the leading personnel responsible for the combat readiness of the Republic of Slovenia .
The movement of territorial defense units was carried out mostly with vehicles assigned to the reserve component and " mobilized " for this exercise .
The TD unit of the Dolenjska region marching through a community
In the Sodražice district , a mock air raid on a convoy of vehicles was carried out .
Territorial defense units responded to the violent attack .
This was an illustrative demonstration of offensive and defensive actions .
Preparations for independence also included RS Territorial Defense exercises , one the most important being a tactical exercise , Premik-91 , which was conducted 22 - 24 March 1991 .
TD units from the 6th and 2nd Regional TD HQs and the MORiS special brigade participated in this exercise .
A lot of activities were carried out during the movement of the unit .
The unit engaged in anti-aircraft and anti-helicopter combat , and in Stari Log na Kočevskem it engaged in an ambush operation . It also conducted terrain surveillance since there was a danger of enemy reconnaissance commando units .
The Premik-91 exercise verified that the level of readiness of the RS TD was adequate for it to become the key actor offering armed resistance within the defense system if the freedom , independence and territorial integrity of Slovenia were threatened .
We were ready .
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE IG AND PEKRE TRAINING CENTERS
Commandant , 510th Training Center , Ig Major Bojan Šuligoj
Commandant , 710th Training Center , Pekre Major Andrej Kocbek
The Commandant of the Ig Training Center reporting to the President of the Republic of Slovenia , Milan Kučan
Conscripts arriving at the training center
Pekre
Everything is ready for the swearing-in ceremony .
For the first time in history , the Slovenian nation had its own peacetime soldiers .
Soldiers had previously done their military service in Austria and in Yugoslavia far away from their homes and in a foreign language . When Slovenia decided on independence , it also got its own military .
In April 1991 , the first squad and platoon leader and company commander courses started in the new TD Training Center in Poljče in the Gorenjska region .
On May 15 , the first soldiers arrived .
180 conscripts arrived at the Ig Training Center and 120 soldiers at the Pekre Training Center near Maribor .
Military service was completed in modernized barracks ; sound relationships were established and the foundations for building respect for military persons were set .
On 2 June 1991 , the first peacetime soldiers swore their allegiance to the country at Ig and in Pekre .
PEKRE , 23 MAY 1991
The 710th Territorial Defense Training Center in Pekre
Many inhabitants from Maribor gathered in front of the 710th Territorial Defense Training Center preventing new YPA units from entering .
A special police unit from Maribor protected all access routes to the surrounded training center in Pekre .
YPA armored vehicles in front of the Pekre Training Center
On 23 May 1991 , the YPA tried to enforce its will at the Territorial Defense Training Center in Pekre near Maribor .
It also used threats to get to the conscripts which would probably have meant the end of the beginning of the Slovenian armed forces .
However , training center personnel would not yield and were ready to use weapons if necessary .
This did not happen .
The wheels of the YPA aggressor , an armored vehicle , took their first death toll , Josef Simčik .
A DAY EARLIER IN PRIMORSKA REGION
Vrhpolje , 26 June , evening
The barricade stopped the advance of the YPA armored vehicle convoy ; the soldiers who were escorting the convoy had their weapons ready to fire .
Vrhpolje , 26 June
At approximately 1600 hours , the first YPA tank drove into the village .
Angry villagers stopped the armored convoy with a barricade .
Vipava , 26 June , evening
A clear message from the locals to the YPA
Krvavi potok , 26 June 1130
At several border crossings , there were problems which required a police presence .
On 26 June 1991 at 1315 hours , based on an order by the Commander of the Rijeka Corps , General Marjan Čad , armor units left their military posts in Ilirska Bistrica and in Pivka and headed towards the Slovenian-Italian border .
Territorial defense members , along with police officers , escorted them and helped increasingly upset locals set up road barricades .
The President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces , Milan Kučan , escorted by the Chief of the Republic Territorial Defense Headquarters , Colonel Janez Slapar , and Lieutenant Colonel Tone Krkovič inspected the honor unit's formation which was comprised of conscripts from the Ig and Pekre training centers .
On 26 June 1991 , a huge crowd of people from all over Slovenia gathered at the Ljubljana square , Trg republike , to attend the celebration upon the declaration of an independent and sovereign Slovenia .
This was a grand event .
Members of the Slovenian Territorial Defense raising the Slovenian flag
On 25 June 1991 , the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a constitutional law on the coat of arms , the flag and the Basic Charter on the Independence and Sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia .
Archbishop Dr. Alojzij Šuštar blessed a newly planted linden tree . There was a cultural program with the actor Polde Bibič , the police band and the " Slovenski oktet " octet choir .
Across Slovenia , celebrations were held but flights overhead by YPA aircraft were a bad omen .
Bigger YPA military installations in Slovenia in June 1991
Tank units were the most exposed YPA weapons .
The highest ranking YPA officers thought that ten or so tanks on Slovenian roads would be enough to reduce Slovenia to obedience .
Every year , the YPA had a parade as a demonstration of force .
The last parade was held in 1985 .
Its basic mission was , along with the territorial defense forces , to stop an aggressor in a potential attack on Yugoslavia .
The YPA was the strongest military force in the Balkans and the largest state institution . As such , it was also very costly .
After the death of its Commander-in-Chief Tito , the YPA declared itself the backbone of the political system .
In 1988 , the Army Command in Ljubljana was disbanded under the pretext that this measure was necessary in order to introduce modern combat principles .
The military district command was in Zagreb and it was only from there that they were able to command YPA units stationed in Slovenia .
An important fact is that until 4 October 1990 the 5th Military District was in charge of commanding the Republic of Slovenia's Territorial Defense .
Lieutenant Colonel Tone Krkovič , Commander of the Special Forces Brigade , MORiS
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Zupan , Commander of the Gorenjska TD 3rd Regional TD HQ
Lieutenant Colonel Franc Anderlič , Commander of the Južnoprimorska TD ( 4th Regional TD HQ ) through 30 June 1991
Major Vojko Štembergar , Commander of the Južnoprimorska TD ( 4th Regional TD HQ ) from 30 June 1991
Lieutenant Colonel Miha Butara , Commander of the Ljubljana Regional TD ( 5th Regional TD HQ ) through 30 June 1991
Major Janez Lesjak , Commander of the Ljubljana Regional TD ( 5th Regional TD HQ ) from 30 June 1991
Lieutenant Colonel Bogdan Beltram , Commander of the Severnoprimorska Regional TD ( 6th Regional TD HQ )
Major Viktor Krajnc , M.Sc . , Commander of the Zahodnoštajerska Regional TD ( 8th Regional TD HQ )
Sign { symbol ?} of the Republic of Slovenia TD
In ambush
Training for TD members was well prepared and tailored to the specific needs of TD units .
Slightly fewer than 16,000 of them responded to the invitation .
In June 1991 , the Slovenian TD had the following armament :
* 39,000 infantry weapons ,
* 17,000,000 rounds of ammunition for infantry weapons ,
* 1,100 anti-armor weapons , and
* 100 anti-tank missiles .
The TD had no armor , airborne or artillery units of its own .
The TD concept was established on 20 November 1968 in all of the former Yugoslav republics .
It was designed to be a special military organization with no standing troops , military posts or armament . The level of equipment could not be compared to that of the YPA .
TD units were manned by reservists and commanded by reserve officers .
The first Commander of the Slovenian TD was Bojan Polak-Stjenka .
The 1990 multi-party elections in Slovenia also influenced the TD by triggering several political changes .
On 28 September 1990 , Major Janez Slapar was appointed to the position of Acting Commander of the Republic TD HQ.
In June 1991 , the TD was under the guidance of the Republic TD HQ. Seven regional and 26 district TD HQs were set up .
The special forces brigade , MORiS , and two training centers were also established .
THE POLICE FORCE STRUGGLE FOR AN INDEPENDENT SLOVENIA
The authorities responsible for the Republic of Slovenia's internal policies were divided into 13 regional internal affairs offices .
Igor Bavčar , Secretary of Internal Affairs , the Republic of Slovenia
Dr. Miha Brejc
Director of the Security and Information Service
Slovenian police got a new insignia
Milan Domadenik , Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs
All active and reserve police officers were called up .
Their defense preparations had been carried out long before , and their experience gained in the " Gathering of Truth " on 1 December 1989 was extremely valuable .
During the attack on Slovenia , the police and TD forces fought side by side against the YPA .
The Criminal Investigation Service focused its operations mainly on the collection of documents on criminal acts committed by YPA soldiers . The service also conducted interviews with prisoners , cooperated with the police in inspecting some facilities and premises , and accomplished a number of other tasks .
The Security and Information Service was actively involved in the suppression of YPA counter-intelligence service operations and collected a lot of information on enemy activities and their objectives at home and abroad .
One of the merits of the joint services was also the provision of full logistic support .
CIVIL PROTECTION ( CP ) OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA
Miran Bogataj , CP Commander of the Republic of Slovenia
Two firefighters testing gas masks
Novo mesto
Road blockade
Kranj
During one of their operations , they had to put out fires on tanks after an armed conflict in Rožna Dolina .
The CP and other organizations in the existing protection system played an important role during and after the War for Slovenian Independence .
CP units carried out preparations similar to those in the defense and other areas before the actual declaration of independence in order to be ready for any potential escalation in the situation .
There were also assumptions that the opposite side would use force in order to quash the independence process .
They carried out measures which had been established in case of immediate danger , such as the arrangement of shelters and protection trenches , fire protection measures , NBC protection activities and the like .
The population received daily information through radio and television broadcasts on the necessary measures to be taken in case of air raids , how to build shelters , the use of protective masks , the hermetic sealing of their homes and stalls , the protection of wells , and the stockpiling of necessary reserves of food and drink .
The majority of tasks associated with immediate protective measures , notably in the area of armed conflict , were accomplished by firefighters and emergency medical services .
Special measures were initiated by the RCPHQ during the air raid in Kočevsko and the bombing threats to the oil derivatives storage site in Mokronog .
All of the actions by the CP and other forces were , as in other areas , derived from the guidelines and the group responsible for defense coordination .
EOD personnel were among the busiest as they had to clear large areas of mined land as well as material left behind from the 1991 armed conflicts . The work was carried out in stages from April to July 1992 , from September to November 1992 , from April to June 1994 and from September to November 1994 .
CP and TD EOD personnel managed to clear 1,500 hectares with some 800 anti-personnel mines being discovered or destroyed ; this was a highly demanding and dangerous task and one which required much responsibility .
In terms of the organization , facilities , and personnel and technical assets , the reception , accommodation and provision of supplies to the refugees from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina which followed the escalation of war operations in the former Yugoslavia was an even more complex mission than that of demining .
By August 1992 , when the RS government established the Refugee Office , the CP had managed to receive , accommodate and provide supplies for more than 80,000 people from the former Yugoslavia with the help of the Slovenian Red Cross and other authorities .
ON THE FIRST DAY OF THE WAR ( THURSDAY , 27 JUNE 1991 )
A convoy of YPA vehicles consisting of 12 BOV3 armored personnel vehicles , 6 trucks and 3 all - terrain vehicles drove through Metlika at 1 : 15 a.m.
The final destination of the convoy was not known .
The roadblock was made up of trucks from the Novo mesto Road Company and protected by the counter-diversion unit of the 21st District TD HQ Novo mesto .
At 3 a.m. Major Boško Prodanovič , the YPA unit commander , ordered the removal of the roadblock and backed up his decision by firing a few shots from a machine gun .
This is regarded as the first shooting incident in the War for Slovenian Independence .
At Trzin , three armored personnel carriers and a signals vehicle were left behind from a convoy of armored vehicles from Vrhnika .
As evening approached , members of a special operations detachment left two YPA helicopters to assist the armored vehicle crews .
Shooting broke out and lasted around 20 minutes .
Members of the 55th District TD HQ in Domžale , police officers from the Domžale police station and special police forces were involved in the fighting .
Four YPA soldiers and one TD member lost their lives .
The rest of the YPA soldiers surrendered , and the soldiers from the YPA special operations detachment were captured the following day .
The convoy moving towards Šentilj was stopped by a barricade at Pesnica .
Around noon , the barricade was fired on and later was set on fire .
The tank column was attacked by TD members at around 5 : 30 p.m.
An order issued by the commander of the 5th military district a few hours after the commencement of the YPA aggression in Slovenia
At daybreak of the first day following the declaration of Slovenia's independence , the YPA started its armed aggression on the newly declared state .
A convoy of armored vehicles moved from Croatia to Novo mesto and Ljubljana , and tanks from Vrhnika set off towards the Brnik Airport in two columns .
The order issued to command personnel required the use of all combat operation rules and these were eventually applied .
The officers acted with a lot of determination and self-confidence .
YPA TANKS ON ROADS
Ormož , consequences of conflict
Units from the Ljutomer District TD HQ set up obstacles on the bridge in order to prevent the further progress of the tanks .
The defense was successful and , in the evening , the column returned to Varaždin .
At the extended session of the Republic of Slovenia's Presidency , President Milan Kučan addressed the public :
Slovenia will respond to this aggression by using all available means in order to protect its sovereignty .
The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered the Slovenian TD forces to use weapons , if necessary , to protect facilities and communications assets vital for people's lives in the Republic of Slovenia and for the protection of its sovereignty . "
The Republic of Slovenia's Presidency urged all Slovenes in the YPA to refuse to participate in aggression against their own nation .
During the first days of the war , YPA planes dropped leaflets on some towns , the contents of which were similar to the leaflets scattered by German aircraft during World War II.
Gornja Radgona
At four minutes to five o'clock in the morning , some thirty tanks set off from Veržej , making their way through Križevci towards Radenci .
In the village of Hrastje-Mota , they reached the first obstacle , broke through it and then reached Radenci .
There they made a sudden move towards Gornja Radgona .
At 10 : 50 a.m. they found themselves in front of the town which looked as if it had been deserted .
Shortly before eleven , they proceeded towards the border . One of the tanks ran into a house in the city center and pulled it down .
Brnik after a devastating air attack
Major General Konrad Kolšek announced that the YPA would also use air strikes ;
this eventually happened at half past ten . Two planes attacked the Brnik Airport firing several bursts at hangars and parked cars .
As a result of the attack , an Airbus 320 belonging to the Slovenian airline company and some twenty vehicles were damaged with eight vehicles being totally destroyed by fire .
In one of the vehicles , two Austrian journalists lost their lives .
Shooting was violent with the YPA also using anti-aircraft guns .
In the village of Veliki Gaber , planes strafed and burned down the Kotar family's house and farm buildings ; the owner , Anton , was killed by machinegun fire .
YPA aircraft used the notorious bomb clusters which were forbidden by international law .
The Slovenian Armed Forces reinforced blockades and mobilized new units to protect border crossings .
All coordination groups received an order :
Make sure that the civilian population is evacuated and protected . "
FIGHTING FOR BORDERS
At the Rožna Dolina border crossing between Nova Gorica on the Slovenian side and Gorizia on the Italian side , 115 YPA troops were posted .
Despite the unfavorable ratio for the TD , a decision was made to attack the border crossing with territorial and police forces .
Major Srečko Lisjak was appointed the commanding officer of this operation .
One T-55 tank was destroyed by the first shots alone , and one more caught fire later on .
YPA soldiers realized very soon the helplessness of the situation and surrendered .
The decisive clash for Holmec started on 28 June sometime after 5 a.m. and was finished by 10 : 50 a.m.
After this violent conflict , the YPA soldiers surrendered .
The victory won at Holmec was a joint effort by police and TD forces .
The Slovenian flag was flying at Holmec at 7 : 00 p.m.
The recce platoon of the MORiS special forces brigade occupied a large YPA military depot in Borovnica near Ljubljana .
During the next few days , the items were quickly disseminated in fear of an air raid .
The attack did not take place as the corps command was allegedly not informed about the occupation of the depot until the end of the war .
Milan Kučan , the President of the Republic of Slovenia's Presidency , and Admiral Stane Brovet , the Assistant Federal Defense Minister , agreed over the phone to cease hostilities at 9 : 00 p.m.
The agreed to cease-fire was not respected .
On the very next day , YPA troops provoked a number of incidents .
Solkan
During the War for Slovenian Independence , border control was increasingly important .
At several locations , police forces were supported by TD forces .
Škofljica during the war
The implementation of stricter traffic regulation measures
From Friday night to Saturday morning , a meeting between Slovenian representatives , three representatives from the European Community and the Chairman of the Federal Executive Council was held in Zagreb .
They reached an agreement on ceasing hostilities which was , however , never implemented .
The following issues were discussed during these talks :
* a cease-fire and YPA withdrawal from military posts ,
* a 3-month postponement in the implementation of Slovenian independence , and
There was no question of postponing the implementation of Slovenian independence ; in fact , there was no way to go back .
It became clear that Slovenes were not willing and were not in a position to give up their independence .
DAY FOUR ( SUNDAY , 30 JUNE 1991 )
In all major Slovenian towns , leaflets and posters were distributed demanding that the YPA leave Slovenian territory .
During the War for Slovenian Independence , medical institutions played an important role by generously providing care for the wounded on both sides - for both TD and YPA troops .
The Slovenian Red Cross provided continued care for prisoners and YPA deserters .
They supplied civilian clothing and , in cooperation with the Yugoslavian Red Cross , made arrangements for the return of YPA soldiers to their homes .
Sniper on stand-by
In spite of three days of fighting , barricades on roads and closed borders , the people of Slovenia did not realize until the last Sunday in June that the nation was at war .
People retreated en masse to shelters .
The alarm was cleared only after a full hour .
Although neither side revoked the ceasefire , there were constant violations .
The number of volunteers joining the TD forces was rising , and there was an increasing number of soldiers and officers deserting the YPA .
The establishment of new forces from the Varaždin , Zagreb and Reka corps was in process ; their mission was to conduct an attack on Slovenia .
DAY FIVE ( MONDAY , 1 JULY 1991 )
The YPA often misused Red Cross signs to fire from helicopters . The helicopters were also frequently used to transport military equipment , soldiers , ammunition and signals assets .
Črni Vrh nad Idrijo
Just after 1 a.m. a fire broke out in the weapons , ammunition and EOD depot . Several violent explosions followed later on .
A column of YPA vehicles moving from Kranj to the upper Gorenjska
In their messages , they kept repeating that the YPA was at the highest level of combat readiness , that units were supplied with basic supplies , that some personnel measures had been introduced to improve the efficiency of YPA operations , and the like .
The situation in Slovenia grew in intensity .
Internal Affairs authorities set up temporary concentration centers in cooperation with the TD and the Red Cross .
In the evening of the same day , Slovenia received a new ultimatum .
DAY SIX ( TUESDAY , 2 JULY 1991 )
They attacked the transmitters on Nanos , Krvavec , Kum , and Boč .
For several hours , soldiers were firing from the Maribor military post towards Pohorje in an attempt to destroy the RTV Slovenia transmitter but without success .
In the morning , TD units attacked a column of armored vehicles in the woods " Krakovski gozd " .
From the direction of Jastrebarsko , they were backed up by the column , while YPA aircraft were engaged by TD forces lying in ambush .
During the attack , they also hit YPA tanks and armored vehicles .
Within a few hours , TD forces destroyed the column of YPA armored vehicles .
A destroyed tank at Prilipe
TD units stopped them at Prilipe and destroyed three advance tanks .
The Logatec slope
The YPA tank column from the Vrhnika military post
German Foreign Minister Genscher intended to visit Ljubljana .
The entire Yugoslav air space was closed . There were additional warnings from Belgrade about the tank columns presumably approaching the Slovenian capital , and the meeting was , therefore , held in the Austrian Villach .
President Kučan explained to Minister Genscher at the meeting that the independence declaration could only be revoked if the Slovenian people decided to do so .
The situation in Slovenia worsened .
YPA bombings and missile attacks were selectively directed at the major television and radio transmitters .
FIGHTING FOR SENTRY BOXES
The consequences of air raids on the Kum transmitter
The TD crew safeguarding the transmitter was taken by surprise .
Eight members of TD units were wounded by particles scattered after the explosion of the shells .
The transmitter was heavily damaged .
This time , the air defense protection was prepared .
The aircraft did not crash , but the pilot was forced to eject .
Members of the police and TD forces are getting ready to escort the convoy from Dravograd .
An incapacitated tank remained at the scene of attack .
DAY SEVEN ( WEDNESDAY , 3 JULY 1991 )
The remaining parts of a destroyed tank on Kog
A new YPA column attempted to force its way across the hill of Kog .
Two platoons from the 73rd District TD HQ set up an ambush in the area of Bajzek .
A group of three volunteers lay in ambush at the house of the Šterman family .
They fired at the tank from there , hit it and destroyed it .
The crew left the tank , hid a few days in the nearby woods and then surrendered .
With the withdrawal of the YPA , the border crossing is again in Slovenian hands .
A ceasefire was agreed to but not taken seriously by the Yugoslav generals .
Two columns of tanks were sent from Croatia to Slovenia .
DAY EIGHT ( THURSDAY , 4 JULY 1991 )
Golte , the " gazelle " helicopter with the TO 001 marking
Slovenian members of the Yugoslav Aviation Group , Major Jože Kalan and Senior Master Sergeant Bogomir Šuptar , accomplished a brave feat during the War for Slovenian Independence .
Using a well-prepared and detailed plan , they managed to transport a " Gazelle " helicopter to the Slovenian side .
They left the post in Maribor at 10 : 30 a.m. on 28 June .
Despite searching for them , the Yugoslav Army never found the " Gazelle " .
Even during times of war , the children found a place to play amid the sand bags rearranged as shelters .
Fernetiči , 4 July , after YPA tanks fired on it
A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC ON THE MULTINATIONAL LAND FORCE
The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic, hereinafter referred to as “the Parties”;
Recognising that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic are the Founding Nations of the Multinational Land Force (MLF);
Considering that the above-mentioned states are members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the European Union (EU) and subsequently form a part of the NATO and EU security and defence architecture;
Confirming their full commitment to enhance and improve cooperation, security and stability in order to meet 21st century challenges;
Confirming their commitment to the “open door policy”, enabling the participation and cooperation of other countries within the framework of the MLF;
Recognising the need to renew the concept of operations and operational capabilities and consequent need to revise the legal framework of the MLF, with a view to adapting to the new realities;
Considering the decision of the Political-Military Steering Group to revise the existing agreements and to affiliate the MLF to the NRDC-ITA, adopted at the 5th Political-Military Steering Group Meeting, held in Budapest on 21 September 2010;
Having in mind the well-established tradition of the MLF
Have agreed on the following:
Article 1
Purpose of the Agreement
1.
The purpose of this Agreement is to renew the mission as reflected in the concept of operations and operational capabilities of the MLF, established by the “Agreement among the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Establishment of the Multinational Land Force”, signed on 18 April 1998 in Udine.
The Parties reaffirm the general purpose of the MLF, as defined in the “Agreement among the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Establishment of the Multinational Land Force”, signed on 18 April 1998 in Udine, which is:
– to set up a readily available, highly-operational Force capable of providing an effective military response to newly emerging challenges;
– to enhance the level of interoperability among the Parties of the MLF, by improving mutual knowledge and the adaptation of commonly agreed operational procedures.
– the creation of conditions and capabilities for combined training in peacetime;
– plan and conduct multinational training activities aimed at reaching and maintaining appropriate readiness, sustainment capabilities and high operational effectiveness, as well as contributing to the improvement of interoperability;
– conduct UN, EU and NATO led missions;
– conduct other commonly agreed activities by the Parties.
Scope of Employment
The MLF can be employed as part of a force under the mandate of the UN Security Council or as part of a force led by an International Organisation in accordance with the principles of the United Nations’ Charter.
The decision on the employment of the MLF shall be adopted by a unanimous decision of the Parties and shall be further regulated in the MOU “About the Organisation of the Multinational Land Force”.
Depending on the possible limitations set by the national legislation of a Party, high-level political decisions of a Party, or operational capabilities of the designated units of the Parties, the MLF can be employed by a limited number of the Parties pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Article and in accordance with the decision based on paragraph 3 of this Article.
MLF’s Decision-Making Bodies
The PMSG shall establish the conditions for the operational employment and deployment of the MLF.
The PMSG shall be supported by a multinational-staff-level Political-Military Working Group (PMWG), including technical expert representatives of MODs and Services Staffs that shall meet as required.
These structures shall also provide a forum for discussion on the MLF’s development.
Upon the proposal by the PMWG the PMSG can establish non-permanent Working groups (WG) comprised by Subject Matter Experts to support the decision making process of the MLF.
These WG shall meet as required and report to the PMWG.
The MLF is a Force consisting of peacetime establishment Command structures, designated units and crisis establishment structures, based on the concept of a “Lead Nation”.
The appropriate level of integration shall be reached by the assignment of the Parties’ personnel to the MLF HQ.
This shall also facilitate the integration of the different components at the beginning of an operation or exercise.
The Italian Republic, acting as the “Lead Nation”, shall provide the seat for the MLF HQ, the MLF HQ Commander and the bulk of the MLF HQ framework, reinforced by selected personnel from the other Parties on a permanent basis and adequately augmented in contingencies. The number of other Parties’ personnel in the MLF HQ on a permanent basis shall reflect the number of personnel they designate to the MLF Forces.
The capabilities designated by the Parties shall be specified in the MOU “About the Organisation of the Multinational Land Force”.
When the MLF is activated for training or operational purposes, the MLF HQ Commander will be appointed as Commander Multinational Land Force (hereinafter referred to as COMMLF).
For the planning and conduct of operations and training the MLF HQ shall be augmented by Crisis Establishment personnel as agreed in the appropriate MOU.
However, national troop contributions will be confirmed by the PMSG.
Responsibilities of COMMLF shall be detailed in the MOU “About the Organisation of the Multinational Land Force”.
It is the responsibility of the Parties to equip, train and maintain forces designated for the MLF, up to an operational and readiness status coherent with the standards set up for the MLF.
Official and Working Languages
The official languages of the MLF are the national languages of the Parties.
English will be the working language and all operational documents are to be issued in this language.
The costs related to the establishment, administration and operation of the MLF HQ, shall be borne by a multinational budget funded in accordance with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding “About the organisation of the Multinational Land Force”.
The costs not covered by the multinational budget are born by the Parties in accordance with principles set by the MOU “About the Organisation of the Multinational Land Force” or any other appropriate arrangement.
Legal Considerations
The provisions of the Agreement between the Parties of the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the status of their Forces (NATO SOFA, dated 19 June 1951) will regulate the status of the MLF personnel, as applicable.
Participation of Other Countries in the MLF
Any state may accede to this Agreement upon obtaining written consent of all Parties and signature of a Note of Accession to this Agreement.
The sample Note of Accession is attached in Annex A to this Agreement.
Any NATO, NATO PfP or EU Member State forces, as well as other friendly Nations’ forces can participate in a particular MLF training activity or operation upon prior consent of the Parties and upon signing an appropriate Memorandum of Understanding or Technical Arrangement with the Parties specifying such participation.
Security Clauses
All classified information exchanged or generated in connection with this Agreement, will be protected in accordance with the applicable national and international laws and regulations of the Parties.
Information marked with any of the MLF security classifications shall be protected in the same manner as information with the corresponding national security classification as indicated in the above table.
Access to classified information on the basis of this Agreement is permitted to personnel of the Parties who have a “need-to-know” and an adequate level of security clearance in compliance with national laws and regulations.
Transfer of classified information to Third Parties, obtained as a result of cooperation in the field of defence materials covered by this Agreement, will be subject to the prior written consent of the Security Authority of the generating Party.
The exchange and protection of classified information shall be regulated in detail in the applicable bilateral agreements.
Without prejudice to the immediate effect of the clauses contained in this article, further aspects of security relating to classified information shall be governed by follow-on documents.
Settlement of Disputes
Implementation Arrangements
Detailed questions concerning the MLF and other operational aspects will be settled in separate Memorandum of Understanding or other relevant documents signed by the appropriate authorities of the Parties.
Final Provisions
The Agreement shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the Parties.
For any State that accedes to the Agreement this Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of deposit of that State’s instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
On the day this Agreement enters into force the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Establishment of a Multinational Land Force, signed in Udine on 18 April 1998, shall cease to apply.
The entry into force of this Agreement does not affect the validity of any arrangement concluded between the respective authorities of the Parties in connection with the implementation of the subject matter, provided that the content thereof does not conflict with the present Agreement.
This Agreement may be amended by the mutual consent of the Parties.
The amendment shall be proposed in writing, through diplomatic channels, and shall enter into force according to paragraph 2 of this Article.
This Agreement may be terminated by unanimous consent of the Parties at any time.
Any Party may withdraw from the Agreement by giving twelve (12) month’s written notice to the other Parties.
If this Agreement is terminated, or if any of the Parties withdraw from the Agreement, the Parties will settle all outstanding issues and other possible areas of interest related to the termination or withdrawal from the Agreement.
Termination of this Agreement terminates all implementing Arrangements/MOUs.
The original of this Agreement will be deposited with the Government of the Italian Republic who will act as a Depositary, and will provide certified true copies to each Party.
In witness thereof, the undersigned Representatives, duly authorised by their respective Governments, have signed this agreement.
For the Government
of the Republic of Slovenia:
of Hungary:
Csaba Heude (s)
of the Italian Republic:
Roberta Pinotti (s)
A G R E E M E N T
BETWEEN THE PARTIES TO THE
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY REGARDING THE STATUS OF THEIR FORCES
The Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Washington on 4 April, 1949,
Consindering that the forces of one Party may be sent, by arrangement, to serve in the territory of another Party;
Have agreed as follows:
Article I
1.
In this Agreement the expression-
(a) “force” means the personnel belonging to the land, sea or air armed services of one Contracting Party when in the territory of another Contracting Party in the North Atlantic Treaty area in connexion with their official duties, provided that the two Contracting Parties concerned may agree that certain individuals, units or formations shall not be regarded as constituting or included in a “force” for the purposes of the present Agreement;
(c) “dependent” means the spouse of a member of a force or of a civilian component, or a child of such member depending on him or her for support;
(d) “sending State” means the Contracting Party to which the force belongs;
(e) “receiving State” means the Contracting Party in the territory of which the force or civilian component is located, whether it be stationed there or passing in transit;
(f) “military authorities of the sending State” means those authorities of a sending State who are empowered by its law to enforce the military law of that State with respect to members of its forces or civilian components;
(g) “North Atlantic Council” means the Council established by Article 9 of the North Atlantic Treaty or any of its subsidiary bodies authorised to act on its behalf.
Article II
It is the duty of a force and its civilian component and the members thereof as well as their dependents to respect the law of the receiving State, and to abstain from any activity inconsistent with the spirit of the present Agreement, and, in particular, from any political activity in the receiving State.
It is also the duty of the sending State to take necessary measures to that end.
On the conditions specified in paragraph 2 of this Article and subject to compliance with the formalities established by the receiving State relating to entry and departure of a force or the members thereof, such members shall be exempt from passport and visa regulations and immigration inspection on entering or leaving the territory of a receiving State.
The following documents only will be required in respect of members of a force.
They must be presented on demand:
(b) individual or collective movement order, in the language of the sending State and in the English and French languages, issued by an appropriate agency of the sending State or of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and certifying to the status of the individual or group as a member or members of a force and to the movement ordered.
Members of a civilian component and dependents shall be so decribed in their passports.
If a member of a force or of a civilian component leaves the employ of the sending State and is not repatriated, the authorities of the sending State shall immediately inform the authorities of the receiving State, giving such particulars as may be required.
The authorities of the sending State shall similarly inform the authorities of the receiving State of any member who has absented himself for more than twenty-one days.
This paragraph shall apply only to persons who are not nationals of the receiving State and have entered the receiving State as members of a force or civilian component or for the purpose of becoming such members, and to the dependents of such persons.
The receiving State shall either
(a) accept as valid, without a driving test or fee, the driving permit or licence or military driving permit issued by the sending State or a sub-division thereof to a member of a force or of a civilian component; or
Members of a force shall normally wear uniform.
Subject to any arrangement to the contrary between the authorities of the sending and receiving States, the wearing of civilian dress shall be on the same conditions as for members of the forces of the receiving State.
Regularly constituted units or formations of a force shall be in uniform when crossing a frontier.
Members of a force may possess and carry arms, on condition that they are authorized to do so by their orders.
The authorities of the sending State shall give sympathetic consideration to requests from the receiving State concerning this matter.
Subject to the provisions of this Article,
(a) the military authorities of the sending State shall have the right to exercise within the receiving State all criminal and disciplinary jurisdiction conferred on them by the law of the sending State over all persons subject to the military law of that State;
(b) the authorities of the receiving State shall have jurisdiction over the members of a force or civilian component and their dependents with respect to offences committed within the territory of the receiving State and punishable by the law of that State.
(a) The military authorities of the sending State shall have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over persons subject to the military law of that State with respect to offences, including offences relating to its security, punishable by the law of the sending State, but not by the law of the receiving State.
(b) The authorities of the receiving State shall have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over members of a force or civilian component and their dependents with respect to offences, including offences relating to the security of that State, punishable by its law but not by the law of the sending State.
(i) treason against the State;
(ii) sabotage, espionage or violation of any law relating to official secrets of that State, or secrets relating to the national defence of that State.
In cases where the right to exercise jurisdiction is concurrent the following rules shall apply:
(i) offences solely against the property or security of that State, or offences solely against the person or property of another member of the force or civilian component of that State or of a dependent;
(ii) offences arising out of any act or omission done in the performance of official duty.
(b) In the case of any other offence the authorities of the receiving State shall have the primary right to exercise jurisdiction.
(c) If the State having the primary right decides not to exercise jurisdiction, it shall notify the authorities of the other State as soon as practicable.
The authorities of the State having the primary right shall give sympathetic consideration to a request from the authorities of the other State for a waiver of its right in cases where that other State considers such waiver to be of particular importance.
(b) The authorities of the receiving State shall notify prompthy the military authorities of the sending State of the arrest of any member of a force or civilian component or a dependent.
(c) The custody of an accused member of a force or civilian component over whom the receiving State is to exercise jurisdiction shall, if he is in the hands of the sending State, remain with that State until he is charged by the receiving State.
(a) The authorities of the receiving and sending States shall assist each other in the carrying out of all necessary investigations into offences, and in the collection and production of evidence, including the seizure and, in proper cases, the handing over of objects connected with an offence.
(b) The authorities of the Contracting Parties shall notify one another of the disposition of all cases in which there are concurrent rights to exercise jurisdiction.
(a) A death sentence shall not be carried out in the receiving State by the authorities of the sending State if the legislation of the receiving State does not provide for such punishment in a similar case.
Whenever a member of a force or civilian component of a dependent is prosecuted under the jurisdiction of a receiving State he shall be entitled:
(b) to be informed, in advance of trial, of the specific charge or charges made against him;
(c) to be confronted with the witnesses against him;
(f) if he considers it necessary, to have the services of a competent interpreter; and
(g) to communicate with a representative of the Government of the sending State and, when the rules of the court permit, to have such a representative present at his trial.
(a) Regularly constituted military units or formations of a force shall have the right to police any camps, establishments or other premises which they occupy as the result of an agreement with the receiving State.
The military police of the force may take all appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of order and security on such premises.
(b) Outside these premises, such military police shall be employed only subject to arrangements with the authorities of the receiving State and in liaison with those authorities, and in so far as such employment is necessary to maintain discipline and order among the members of the force.
Each Contracting Party shall seek such legislation as it deems necessary to ensure the adequate security and protection within its territory of installations, equipment, property, records and official information of other Contracting Parties, and the punishment of persons who may contravene laws enacted for that purpose.
Each Contracting Party waives all its claims against any other Contracting Party for damage to any property owned by it and used by its land, sea or air armed services, if such damage:
Claims for maritime salvage by one Contracting Party against any other Contracting Party shall be waived, provided that the vessel or cargo salvaged was owned by a Contracting Party and being used by its armed services in connection with the operation of the North Atlantic Treaty.
(a) In the case of damage caused or arising as stated in paragraph 1 to other property owned by a Contracting Party and located in its territory, the issue of the liability of any other Contracting Party shall be determined and the amount of damage shall be assessed, unless the Contracting Parties concerned agree otherwise, by a sole arbitrator selected in accordance with sub-paragraph b. of this paragraph.
The arbitrator shall also decide any counter-claims arising out of the same incident.
(b) The arbitrator referred to in sub-paragraph a. above shall be selected by agreement between the Contracting Parties concerned from amongst the nationals of the receiving State who hold or have held high judicial office.
If the Contracting Parties concerned are unable, within two months, to agree upon the arbitrator, either may request the Chairman of the North Atlantic Council Deputies to select a person with the aforesaid qualifications.
(c) Any decision taken by the arbitrator shall be binding and conclusive upon the Contracting Parties.
(e) The compensation of the arbitrator shall be fixed by agreement between the Contracting Parties concerned and shall, together with the necessary expenses incidental to the performance of his duties, be defrayed in equal proportions by them.
Each Contracting Party waives all its claims against any other Contracting Party for injury or death suffered by any member of its armed services while such member was engaged in the performance of his official duties.
Claims (other than contractual claims and those to which paragraphs 6 or 7 of this Article apply) arising out of acts or omissions of members of a force or civilian component done in the performance of official duty, or out of any other act, omission or occurrence for which a force or civilian component is legally responsible, and causing damage in the territory of the receiving State to third parties, other than any of the Contracting Parties, shall be dealt with by the receiving State in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) Claims shall be filed, considered and settled or adjudicated in accordance with the laws and regulations of the receiving State with respect to claims arising from the activities of its own armed forces.
(b) The receiving State may settle any such claims, and payment of the amount agreed upon or determinated by adjudication shall be made by the receiving State in its currency.
(c) Such payment, whether made pursuant to a settlement or to adjudication of the case by a competent tribunal of the receiving State, or the final adjudication by such a tribunal denying payment, shall be binding and conclusive upon the Contracting Parties.
(d) Every claim paid by the receiving State shall be communicated to the sending States concerned together with full particulars and a proposed distribution in conformity with sub-paragraphs e. (i), (ii) and (iii) below.
In default of a reply within two months, the proposed distribution shall be regarded as accepted.
(e) The cost incurred in satisfying claims pursuant to the preceding sub-paragraphs and paragraph 2 of this Article shall be distributed between the Contracting Parties, as follows:
(i) Where one sending State alone is responsible, the amount awarded or adjudged shall be distributed in the proportion of 25 per cent. chargeable to the receiving State and 75 per cent. chargeable to the sending State.
(iii) Where the damage was caused by the armed services of the Contracting Parties and it is not possible to attribute it specifically to one or more of those armed services, the amount awarded or adjudged shall be distributed equally among the Contracting Parties concerned: however, if the receiving State is not one of the States by whose armed services the damage was caused, its contribution shall be half that of each of the sending States concerned.
Such reimbursement shall be made within the shortest possible time, in the currency of the receiving State.
(g) A member of a force or civilian component shall not be subject to any proceedings for the enforcement of any judgment given against him in the receiving State in a matter arising from the performance of his official duties.
(h) Except in so far as sub-paragraph e. of this paragraph applies to claims covered by paragraph 2 of this Article, the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to any claim arising out of or in connexion with the navigation or operation of a ship or the loading, carriage, or discharge of a cargo, other than claims for death or personal injury to which paragraph 4 of this Article does not apply.
Claims against members of a force or civilian component arising out of tortious acts or omissions in the receiving State not done in the performance of official duty shall be dealt with in the following manner:
(c) If an offer of ex gratia payment is made, and accepted by the claimant in full satisfaction of his claim, the authorities of the sending State shall make the payment themselves and inform the authorities of the receiving State of their decision and of the sum paid.
(d) Nothing in this paragraph shall affect the jurisdiction of the courts of the receiving State to entertain an action against a member of a force or of a civilian component unless and until there has been payment in full satisfaction of the claim.
If a dispute arises as to whether a tortious act or omission of a member of a force or civilian component was done in the performance of official duty or as to whether the use of any vehicle of the armed services of a sending State was unauthorized, the question shall be submitted to an arbitrator appointed in accordance with paragraph 2 (b) of this Article, whose decision on this point shall be final and conclusive.
The sending State shall not claim immunity from the jurisdiction of the courts of the receiving State for members of a force or civilian component in respect of the civil jurisdiction of the courts of the receiving State except to the extent provided in paragraph 5 (g) of this Article.
Members of a force or of a civilian component and their dependents may purchase locally goods necessary for their own consumption, and such services as they need, under the same conditions as the nationals of the receiving State.
Goods which are required from local sources for the subsistence of a force or civilian component shall normally be purchased through the authorities which purchase such goods for the armed services of the receiving State.
In order to avoid such purchases having any adverse effect on the economy of the receiving State, the competent authorities of that State shall indicate, when necessary, any articles the purchase of which should be restricted or forbidden.
These agreements and arrangements shall be, as far as possible, in accordance with the regulations governing the accommodation and billeting of similar personnel of the receiving State.
In the absence of a specific contract to the contrary, the laws of the receiving State shall determine the rights and obligations arising out of the occupation or use of the buildings, grounds, facilities or services.
The conditions of employment and work, in particular wages, supplementary payments and conditions for the protection of workers, shall be those laid down by the legislation of the receiving State.
When a force or a civilian component has at the place where it is stationed inadequate medical or dental facilities, its members and their dependents may receive medical and dental care, including hospitalization, under the same conditions as comparable personnel of the receiving State.
The receiving State shall give the most favourable consideration to requests for the grant to members of a force or of a civilian component of travelling facilities and concessions with regard to fares.
These facilities and concessions will be the subject of special arrangements to be made between the Governments concerned.
Subject to any general or particular financial arrangements between the Contracting Parties, payment in local currency for goods, accommodation and services furnished under paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and, if necessary, 5 and 6, of this Article shall be made promptly by the authorities of the force.
Neither a force, nor a civilian component, nor the members thereof, nor their dependents, shall by reason of this Article enjoy and exemption from taxes or duties relating to purchases and services chargeable under the fiscal regulations of the receiving State.
Article X
Where the legal incidence of any form of taxation in the receiving State depends upon residence or domicile, periods during which a member of a force or civilian components is in the territory of that State by reason solely of his being a member of such force or civilian component shall not be considered as periods of residence therein, or as creating a change of residence or domicile, for the purposes of such taxation.
Members of a force or civilian component shall be exempt from taxation in the receiving State on the salary and emoluments paid to them as such members by the sending State or on any tangible movable property the presence of which in the receiving State is due solely to their temporary presence there.
Nothing in this Article shall prevent taxation of a member of a force or civilian component with respect to any profitable enterprise, other than his employment as such member, in which he may engage in the receiving State, and, except as regards his salary and emoluments and the tangible movable property referred to in paragraph 1, nothing in this Article shall prevent taxation to which, even if regarded as having his residence or domicile outside the territory of the receiving State, such a member is liable under the law of that State.
Save as provided expressly to the contrary in this Agreement, members of a force and of a civilian component as well as their dependents shall be subject to the laws and regulations administered by the customs authorities of the receiving State.
In particular the customs authorities of the receiving State shall have the right, under the general conditions laid down by the laws and regulations of the receiving State, to search members of a force or civilian component and their dependents and to examine their luggage and vehicles, and to seize articles pursuant to such laws and regulations.
(a) The temporary importation and the re-exportation of service vehicles of a force or civilian component under their own power shall be authorized free of duty on presentation of a triptyque in the form shown in the Appendix to this Agreement.
(b) The temporary importation of such vehicles not under their own power shall be governed by paragraph 4 of this Article and the re-exportation thereof by paragraph 8.
(c) Service vehicles of a force or civilian component shall be exempt from any tax payable in respect of the use of vehicles on the roads.
This movement order shall show the number of despatches carried and certify that they contain only official documents.
A force may import free of duty the equipment for the force and reasonable quantities of provisions, supplies and other goods for the exclusive use of the force and, in cases where such use is permitted by the receiving State, its civilian component and dependents.
The designation of the person authorized to sign the certificates as well as specimens of the signatures and stamps to be used, shall be sent to the customs administration of the receiving State.
A member of a force or civilian component may, at the time of his first arrival to take up service in the receiving State or at the time of the first arrival of any dependent to join him, import his personal effects and furniture free of duty for the term of such service.
Members of a force or civilian component may import temporarily free of duty their private motor vehicles for the personal use of themselves and their dependents.
There is no obligation under this Article to grant exemption from taxes payable in respect of the use of roads by private vehicles.
Imports made by the authorities of a force other than for the exclusive use of that force and its civilian component, and imports, other than those dealt with in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Article, effected by members of a force or civilian component are not, by reason of this Article, entitled to any exemption from duty or other conditions.
Goods which have been imported duty-free under paragraphs 2 (b), 4, 5 or 6 above:
(a) may be re-exported freely, provided that, in the case of goods imported under paragraph 4, a certificate, issued in accordance with that paragraph, is presented to the customs office; the customs authorities, however, may verify that goods re-exported are as described in the certificate, if any, and have in fact been imported under the conditions of paragraphs 2 (b), 4, 5 or 6 as the case may be;
(b) shall not normally be disposed of in the receiving State by way of either sale or gift; however, in particular cases such disposal may be authorized on conditions imposed by the authorities concerned of the receiving State (for instance, on payment of duty and tax and compliance with the requirements of the controls of trade and exchange).
Goods purchased in the receiving State shall be exported therefrom only in accordance with the regulations in force in the receiving State.
Special arrangements for crossing frontiers shall be granted by the customs authorities to regularly constituted units or formations, provided that the customs authorites concerned have been duly notified in advance.
In paragraphs 1–10 of this Article:
“duty” means customs duties and all other duties and taxes payable on importation or exportation, as the case may be, except dues and taxes which are no more than charges for services rendered;
“importation” includes withdrawal from customs warehouses or continuous customs custody, provided that the goods concerned have not been grown, produced or manufactured in the receiving State.
These authorities may refuse any exemption provided for by this Agreement in respect of the importation into the receiving State of articles grown, produced or manufactured in that State which have been exported therefrom without payment of, or upon repayment of, taxes or duties which would have been chargeable but for such exportation.
Goods removed from a customs warehouse shall be deemed to be imported if they were regarded as having been exported by reason of being deposited in the warehouse.
Service vehicles and articles belonging to a force or to its civilian component, and not to a member of such force or civilian component, seized by the authorities of the receiving State in connection with an offence against its customs or fiscal laws or regulations shall be handed over to the appropriate authorities of the force concerned.
A force, a civilian component and the members thereof, as well as their dependents, shall remain subject to the foreign exchange regulations of the sending State and shall also be subject to the regulations of the receiving State.
The foreign exchange authorities of the sending and the receiving States may issue special regulations applicable to a force or civilian component or the members thereof as well as to their dependents.
In the event of such hostilities, each of the Contracting Parties shall have the right, by giving 60 days’ notice to the other Contracting Parties, to suspend the application of any of the provisions of this Agreement so far as it is concerned.
If this right is exercised, the Contracting Parties shall immediately consult with a view to agreeing on suitable provisions to replace the provisions suspended.
All differences between the Contracting Parties relating to the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between them without recourse to any outside jurisdiction.
Any Contracting Party may at any time request the revision of any Article of this Agreement.
The present Agreement shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Government of the United States of America, which shall notify each signatory State of the date of deposit thereof.
Thirty days after four signatory States have deposited their instruments of ratification the present Agreement shall come into force between them.
It shall come into force for each other signatory State thirty days after the deposit of its instrument of ratification.
After it has come into force, the present Agreement shall, subject to the approval of the North Atlantic Council and to such conditions as it may decide, be open to accession on behalf of any State which accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty.
Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of accession with the Government of the United States of America, which shall notify each signatory and acceding State of the date of deposit thereof.
The present Agreement may be denounced by any Contracting Party after the expiration of a period of four years from the date on which the Agreement comes into force.
The denunciation of the Agreement by any Contracting Party shall be effected by a written notification addressed by that Contracting Party to the Government of the United States of America which shall notify all the other Contracting Parties of each such notification and the date of receipt thereof.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the present Agreement shall apply only to the metropolitan territory of a Contracting Party.
Any State may, however, at the time of the deposit of its instrument of ratification or accession or at any time thereafter, declare by notification given to the Government of the United States of America that the present Agreement shall extend (subject, if the State making the declaration considers it to be necessary, to the conclusion of a special agreement between that State and each of the sending States concerned), to all or any of the territories for whose international relations it is responsible in the North Atlantic Treaty area.
The present Agreement shall then extend to the territory or territories named therein thirty days after the receipt by the Government of the United States of America of the notification, or thirty days after the conclusion of the special agreements if required, or when it has come into force under Article XVIII, whichever is the later.
Done in London this nineteenth day of June, 1951, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authoritative, in a single original which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United States of America.
The Government of the United States of America shall transmit certified copies thereof to all the signatory and acceding States.
